1. A. Organizations set recovery point objectives (RPOs) which describe how much data is 
acceptable to lose in a data loss event, and recovery time objectives (RTOs), which describe 
the maximum amount of time that it should take to recover data. Together these two objec-
tives help guide backup strategy and infrastructure design and implementation. MTBF (mean 
time before failure) describes the mean time before a device like a hard drive, power supply, 
or network switch will fail, typically described in hours of powered- on operation. RFBT was 
made up for this question.
2. A. When an intrusion detection system (IDS) or antivirus/antimalware mistakes legitimate 
traffic for an attack, this is called a false positive. A false negative is when the IDS mistakes 
an attack for legitimate traffic. It is the opposite of a false positive. Options C and D are both 
incorrect. Although these may be grammatically correct, these are not the terms used in the 
industry. In military operations, false flag operations attempt to transfer blame to another 
organization or adversary, thus a “false flag.”
3. B. Air gapping refers to the server not being on a network. This means literally that there is 
“air” between the server and the network. This prevents malware from infecting the backup 
server. A separate virtual local area network (VLAN) or physical network segment can 256 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
enhance security but is not as effective as air gapping. A honeynet is used to detect attacks 
against a network, but it doesn’t provide effective defense against malware in this scenario.
4. C. SCADA, or supervisory control and data acquisition systems, are commonly used to man-
age facilities like power plants. The remaining options were made up.
5. C. Geoff is looking for a warm site, which has some or all of the infrastructure and systems 
he needs but does not have data. If a disaster occurs, Geoff can bring any equipment that he 
needs or wants to the site along with his organization’s data to resume operations. A hot site 
is a fully functional environment with all the hardware, software, and data needed to operate 
an organization. They are expensive to maintain and run but are used by organizations that 
cannot take the risk of downtime. A cold site is a location that can be brought online but 
does not have systems; cold sites typically have access to power and bandwidth but need to 
be fully equipped to operate after a disaster since they are just rented space. An RTO is a 
recovery time objective, and it measures how long it should take to resume operations; it is 
not a type of disaster recovery site.
6. B. If Olivia wants to ensure that third parties will be unable to modify the operating system 
for Internet of Things (IoT) devices, requiring signed and encrypted firmware for operating 
system updates is an effective means of stopping all but the most advanced threats. Setting a 
default password means that a common password will be known. Checking the MD5sum for 
new firmware versions will help administrators validate that the firmware is legitimate, but 
signed and encrypted firmware is a much stronger control. Finally, regular patching may help 
secure the devices but won’t prevent OS modifications.
7. B. Maria should implement ongoing auditing of the account usage on the SCADA system. 
This will provide a warning that someone’s account is being used when they are not actually 
using it. Host- based antivirus/antimalware is almost never a bad idea, but this scenario did 
not indicate that the compromise was due to malware, so antimalware may not address the 
threat. Since the engineer has access to the SCADA system, a network intrusion prevention 
system (NIPS) is unlikely to block them from accessing the system, and full- disk encryption 
(FDE) will not mitigate this threat because the system is live and running, meaning that the 
disk will be decrypted in use.
8. C. A snapshot is an image of the virtual machine (VM) at some point in time. It is standard 
practice to periodically take a snapshot of a virtual system so that you can return that system 
to a last known good state. Sandboxing is the process of isolating a system or software. 
The hypervisor is the mechanism through which the virtual environment interacts with the 
hardware, and elasticity is the ability for the system to scale.
9. D. Serverless architectures do not require a system administrator because the provider man-
ages the underlying function- as- a- service (FaaS) capability. It can also scale up or scale down 
as needed, allowing it to be very flexible. Serverless architectures are typically not ideal for 
complex applications and instead tend to work better for microservices.
10. B. Software- defined networking (SDN) makes the network very scalable. It is relatively easy 
to add on new resources or remove unneeded resources, and it helps with high availability 
efforts. SDN does not stop malware, detect intrusions, or prevent session hijacking.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  257
11. A. A microservice architecture builds applications as a set of loosely coupled services that 
provide specific functions using lightweight protocols. It doesn’t specifically define the size  
of the systems, but it is not a tightly coupled environment. Protocol choice is often open  
standards–based, but the emphasis is on lightweight protocols. There is not a requirement 
that services be in- house or third party exclusively.
12. C. The correct answer is to implement IaC. Infrastructure as code (IaC) is the process of 
managing and provisioning computer datacenters through machine- readable definition files, 
rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. Whether the 
datacenter(s) use physical machines or virtual machines, this is an effective way to manage 
the datacenters. Although datacenter managers may be needed, that won’t necessarily provide 
consistent management across the enterprise. Software- defined networking (SDN) will not 
fix this problem, but it would help if Abigail needed to configure and manage her network 
based on usage and performance. Finally, this issue is not just about provisioning; it is about 
management.
13. C. Using secure firmware, as well as using an RTOS with time and space partitioning, are 
both common methods to help ensure RTOS security. Unlike traditional operating systems, 
real- time operating systems are used in applications where they need to deal with inputs 
immediately. That means that adding additional load like firewalls and antimalware is not a 
typical component in RTOS applications. For similar reasons, you’re unlikely to find a web 
browser on most devices running an RTOS.
14. D. Embedded systems can bring a broad range of security implications, many of which are 
driven by the limited capabilities of the processors and hardware they are frequently built 
with. Low- power consumption designs may lack computational power and thus have chal-
lenges implementing strong cryptography, network connectivity, and other similar problems. 
Patching embedded systems can be challenging both because of where they are deployed and 
because of a lack of connectivity for them— in fact, in many environments, you may not want 
the devices to be connected to your network. Since many don’t have a screen, keyboard, or a 
network connection, authentication is also a problem. Few embedded devices, however, need 
bulk storage, making the lack of bulk storage a problem that typically isn’t a major concern.
15. D. Differential backups back up all of the changes since the last full backup. An incremental 
backup backs up all changes since the last incremental backup. A snapshot captures machine 
state and the full drive at a bitwise level, and full backups are a complete copy of a system 
but typically do not include the memory state.
16. B. Elasticity is a cloud computing concept that matches resources to demand to ensure that 
an infrastructure closely matches the needs of the environment. Scalability is the ability to 
grow or shrink as needed but does not directly include the concept of matching to workload. 
Normalization is a code development concept used to ensure that data is in a consistent form.
17. A. An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) should be Nathaniel’s first priority. Ensuring 
that power is not disrupted during an outage and can be maintained for a short period until 
alternate power like a generator can come online is critical, and a UPS can provide that capa-
bility. A generator alone will take longer to come online, resulting in an outage. Dual power 
supplies can help to build resilience by allowing multiple power sources and avoiding issues 258 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
if a power supply does fail, but that is not the focus of the question. A managed power distri-
bution unit (PDU) provides remote management and power monitoring but will not prevent 
power loss in an outage.
18. C. Separating the SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) system from the main 
network makes it less likely that the SCADA system can be affected from the main network. 
This includes malware as well as human action. Software- defined networking (SDN) would 
make isolating the SCADA system easier but would not actually isolate it. Patch management 
is always important, but in this case, it would not have prevented the issue. Encrypted data 
transmissions, such as TLS, would have no effect on this situation.
19. D. Transport Layer Security (TLS) provides a reliable method of encrypting web traffic. It 
supports mutual authentication and is considered secure. Although Secure Sockets Layer 
(SSL) can encrypt web traffic, TLS was created in 1999 as its successor. Although many net-
work administrators still use the term SSL, in most cases today what you are using is actually 
TLS, not the outdated SSL. Point- to- point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) and Internet Protocol 
Security (IPSec) are protocols for establishing a VPN, not for encrypting web traffic.
20. B. Nora has established a cold site. A cold site is a location that can be brought online but 
does not have systems; cold sites typically have access to power and bandwidth, but they 
need to be fully equipped to operate after a disaster since they are just rented space. Warm 
sites have some or all of the infrastructure and systems Nora needs but does not have data.  
A hot site is a fully functional environment with all of the hardware, software, and data 
needed to operate an organization. They are expensive to maintain and run but are used by 
organizations that cannot take the risk of downtime. A MOU is a memorandum of under -
standing and is not a type of disaster recovery site.
21. C. Data sovereignty refers to the concept that data that is collected and stored in a country is 
subject to that country’s laws. This can be a complex issue with multinational cloud services 
and providers that may store data in multiple countries as part of their normal architecture. 
It may also create compliance and other challenges based on differences in national laws 
regarding data, data privacy, and similar issues.
22. A. Low- power devices typically have limited processor speed, memory, and storage, meaning 
that encryption can be a challenge. Fortunately, solutions exist that implement low- power 
cryptographic processing capabilities, and continued advances in processor design continue 
to make lower- power processors faster and more efficient. Legal limitations do not typically 
take into account whether a device is a low- power device, and public key encryption can be 
implemented on a wide range of CPUs and embedded systems, so factoring prime numbers is 
unlikely to be an issue.
23. B. A generator is the most appropriate answer to a multi- hour outage. Although a hot site 
would allow her organization to stay online, the cost of a hot site is much higher than that of 
a generator. A PDU, or power distribution unit, is used to manage and distribute power, not 
to handle power outages. Finally, UPS systems are not typically designed to handle long out-
ages. Instead, they condition power and ensure that systems remain online long enough for a 
generator to take over providing power.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  259
24. D. Network load balancers distribute traffic among systems, allowing systems to be added 
or removed, and making patching and upgrades easier by draining connections from systems 
and removing them from the pool when work needs to be done on them. They can also help 
monitor systems for performance, report on issues, and ensure that loads match the capabil-
ities of the systems that they are in front of. Firewalls are used for security, switches are a net-
work device used to transfer traffic to the correct system, and a horizontal scaler was made 
up for this question.
25. B. Nathaniel has created an air gap, a physical separation that will require manual trans-
port of files, patches, and other data between the two environments. This helps to ensure 
that attackers cannot access critical systems and that insiders cannot export data from the 
environment easily. A screened subnet, also known as a demilitarized zone (DMZ), is a sepa-
rate network segment or zone that is exposed to the outside world or other lower trust area. 
A vault is a secured space or room. Hot and cold isles are equipment arrangements used in 
server rooms or datacenters to efficiently circulate air and keep server racks and other equip-
ment cool.
26. B. The option that best meets the needs described is PEAP, the Protected Extensible Authenti-
cation Protocol. PEAP relies on server- side certificates and on tunneling to ensure communi-
cations security. EAP- MD5 is not recommended for wireless networks and does not support 
mutual authentication of the wireless client and network. LEAP, the Lightweight Extensible 
Authentication Protocol, uses WEP keys for its encryption and is not recommended due to 
security issues. Finally, EAP- TLS, or EAP Transport Layer Security, requires certificates on 
both the client and server, consuming more management overhead.
27. C. Olivia should make her organization aware that a failure in one of the active nodes would 
result in less maximum throughput and a potential for service degradation. Since services are 
rarely run at maximum capacity, and many can have maintenance windows scheduled, this 
does not mean that the load balancers cannot be patched. There is nothing in this design that 
makes the load balancers more vulnerable to denial- of- service than they would be under any 
other design. Having two active nodes will typically increase throughput over a single node.
28. C. Least connection–based load balancing takes load into consideration and sends the next 
request to the server with the least number of active sessions. Round- robin simply distrib-
utes requests to each server in order, whereas weighted time uses health checks to determine 
which server responds the most quickly on an ongoing basis and then sends the traffic to that 
server. Finally, source IP hashing uses the source and destination IP addresses to generate a 
hash key and then uses that key to track sessions, allowing interrupted sessions to be reallo-
cated to the same server, and thus allowing the sessions to continue.
29. D. The safest and most secure answer is that Ramon should simply implement TLS for the 
entire site. Although TLS does introduce some overhead, modern systems can handle large 
numbers of simultaneous TLS connections, making a secure website an easy answer in almost 
all cases.
30. D. A firewall has two types of rules. One type is to allow specific traffic on a given port. The 
other type of rule is to deny traffic. What is shown here is a typical firewall rule. Options A, 
B, and C are incorrect. The rule shown is clearly a firewall rule.260 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
31. D. Unlike IPSec’s tunnel mode, IPSec transport mode allows different policies per port. The 
IP addresses in the outer header for transport mode packets are used to determine the policy 
applied to the packet. IPSec doesn’t have a PSK mode, but WPA2 does. IKE is used to set up 
security associations in IPSec but doesn’t allow this type of mode setting.
32. C. Global Positioning System (GPS) data and data about local Wi- Fi networks are the two 
most commonly used protocols to help geofencing applications determine where they are. 
When a known Wi- Fi signal is gained or lost, the geofencing application knows it is within 
range of that network. GPS data is even more useful because it can work in most locations 
and provide accurate location data. Although Bluetooth is sometimes used for geofencing, 
its limited range means that it is a third choice. Cellular information would require accurate 
tower- based triangulation, which means it is not typically used for geofencing applications, 
and of course USB is a wired protocol.
33. A. A Transport Layer Security (TLS) VPN is frequently chosen when ease of use is important, 
and web applications are the primary usage mode. RDP is a remote access tool, not a VPN 
tool, and ICMP is used for things like ping, not for VPN. IPSec VPNs are used for site- to- site 
VPNs and for purposes where other protocols may be needed, because they make the end-
point system appear to be on the remote network.
34. A. Binary data is a form of non- human- readable data. Encrypted data may be in binary 
format, but not all binary data is encrypted. Binary data is not human- readable, nor is it 
masked, which hides elements of data to allow for it to be used without exposing the under -
lying data.
35. D. Load balancers provide a virtual IP, or VIP. Traffic sent to the VIP is directed to servers 
in the pool based on the load- balancing scheme that that pool is using— often a round- robin 
scheme, but other versions that include priority order and capacity tracking or ratings are 
also common. The load balancer’s IP address is normally used to administer the system, and 
individual IP addresses for the clustered hosts are shielded by the load balancer to prevent 
traffic from consistently going to those hosts, thus creating a failure or load point.
36. A. Port security filters by MAC address, permitting allow listed MAC addresses to connect 
to the port and blocking block listed MAC addresses. Port security can be static, using a pre-
determined list or dynamically allowing a specific number of addresses to connect, or it can 
be run in a combination mode of both static and dynamic modes.
37. C. Authentication headers (AHs) provide complete packet integrity, authenticating the packet 
and the header. Authentication headers do not provide any encryption at all, and authentica-
tion headers authenticate the entire packet, not just the header.
38. A. Network taps copy all traffic to another destination, allowing traffic visibility without 
a device inline. They are completely passive methods of getting network traffic to a central 
location. Port mirroring would get all the traffic to the network- based intrusion prevention 
system (NIPS) but is not completely passive. It requires the use of resources on switches to 
route a copy of the traffic. Incorrect switch configurations can cause looping. Configuring 
loop detection can prevent looped ports. Putting a network NIPS on every segment can be 
very expensive and require extensive configuration work. Setting up a NIPS on each segment 
would also dramatically increase administrative efforts.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  261
39. B.  Internet key exchange (IKE) is used to set up security associations (SAs) on each end 
of the tunnel. The security associations have all the settings (i.e., cryptographic algorithms, 
hashes) for the tunnel. IKE is not directly involved in encrypting or authenticating. IKE itself 
does not establish the tunnel— it establishes the SAs.
40. A. The NIPS is not seeing the traffic on that network segment. By implementing port mirror -
ing, the traffic from that segment can be copied to the segment where the NIPS is installed. 
Installing a network IPS on the segment would require additional resources. This would work 
but is not the most efficient approach. Nothing in this scenario suggests that the NIPS is 
inadequate. It just is not seeing all the traffic. Finally, isolating the segment to its own VLAN 
would isolate that network segment but would still not allow the NIPS to analyze the traffic 
from that segment.
41. D. Load- balancing the cluster will prevent any single server from being overloaded. And if 
a given server is offline, other servers can take on its workload. A VPN concentrator, as the 
name suggests, is used to initiate virtual private networks (VPNs). Aggregate switching can 
shunt more bandwidth to the servers but won’t mitigate the threat of one or more servers 
being offline. SSL accelerators are a method of offloading processor- intensive public key 
encryption for Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) to a hardware 
accelerator.
42. B. The correct answer is to encrypt all the web traffic to this application using Transport 
Layer Security (TLS). This is one of the most fundamental security steps to take with any 
website. A web application firewall (WAF) is probably a good idea, but it is not the most 
important thing for Ryan to implement. While a network- based intrusion prevention system 
(NIPS) or network- based intrusion detection system (NIDS) may be a good idea, those should 
be considered after TLS is configured.
43. C. Claire’s best option is to deploy a detection and fix via her web application firewall 
(WAF) that will detect the SQL injection (SQLi) attempt and prevent it. An intrusion detec-
tion system (IDS) only detects attacks and cannot stop them. Manually updating the appli-
cation code after reverse- engineering it will take time, and she may not even have the source 
code or the ability to modify it. Finally, vendor patches for zero days typically take some time 
to come out even in the best of circumstances, meaning that Claire could be waiting on a 
patch for quite a while if that is the option she chooses.
44. A. Session persistence makes sure that all of a client’s traffic for a transaction or session goes 
to the same server or service. The remaining options do not properly describe how session 
persistence works.
45. D. Although next- generation firewalls (NGFWs) provide may defensive capabilities, SQL 
injection (SQLi) is an attack instead of a defense. In addition to geolocation, intrusion detec-
tion system (IDS) and intrusion prevention system (IPS), and sandboxing capabilities, many 
next- generation firewalls include web application firewalls, load balancing, IP reputation and 
URL filtering, and antimalware and antivirus features.
46. C. UTM, or unified threat management, devices commonly serve as firewalls, intrusion 
detection system (IDS)/intrusion prevention system (IPS), antivirus/antimalware, web prox-
ies, web application and deep packet inspection, secure email gateways, data loss prevention 262 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
(DLP), security information and event management (SIEM), and even virtual private net-
working (VPN) devices. They aren’t mobile device management (MDM) or universal end-
point management devices, however, since their primary focus is on network security, not 
systems or device management.
47. A. IDSs, or intrusion detection systems, can only detect unwanted and malicious traffic based 
on the detection rules and signatures that they have. They cannot stop traffic or modify it. An 
IPS, or intrusion prevention system, that is placed in line with network traffic can take action 
on that traffic. Thus, IDSs are often used when it is not acceptable to block network traffic, 
or when a tap or other network device is used to clone traffic for inspection.
48. C. Although insider threats are a concern, they’re not any different for containers than any 
other system. Ensuring container host security, securing the management stack, and making 
sure that network traffic to and from containers is secure are all common container security 
concerns.
49. A. This is an example of using geographic restrictions to protect data. Fred has rules that 
require additional authentication for those who are off-site and also those who may be 
performing impossible travel. Time is not part of both rules, there’s no role description, and 
supervisory control is not a term used for this.
50. D. 802.1X is the IEEE standard for port- based network access control. This protocol is fre-
quently used to authenticate devices. Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) 
is an authentication protocol but not the best choice for device authentication. Kerberos is an 
authentication protocol but not the best choice for device authentication. 802.11i is the Wi- Fi 
security standard and is fully implemented in WPA2 and WPA3. It is not a device authentica-
tion procedure.
51. D. Anomaly- based detection systems build a behavioral baseline for networks and then 
assess differences from those baselines. They may use heuristic capabilities on top of those, 
but the question specifically asks about baselined operations pointing to an anomaly- based 
system. Heuristic- based detections look for behaviors that are typically malicious, and 
signature- based or hash- based detections look for known malicious tools or files.
52. A. Mila should select a hash because a hash is designed to be unique to each possible input. 
That means that multiple files could have the same checksum value, whereas a hashing 
algorithm will be unique for each file that it is run against.
53. A. Tabletop exercises are used to talk through a process. Unlike walk- throughs, which focus 
on a step- by- step review of an incident, Mila will focus more on how her team responds and 
on learning from those answers. A tabletop exercise can involve gaming out a situation. A 
simulation actually emulates an event or incident, either on a small or a large scale. Drills are 
not defined as part of the Security+ exam outline.
54. D. High- availability designs are less expensive because they attempt to minimize service 
interruptions, whereas fault- tolerant designs seek to avoid service interruptions almost 
entirely, and thus cost significantly more. Both focus on service availability and typically use 
both hardware and software tools to meet their goals.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  263
55. D. Geographic dispersion is intended to help with availability by ensuring that a single 
disaster does not take multiple datacenters or other facilities offline. It does not directly 
impact confidentiality or integrity, and assurance is not part of the CIA triad.
56. A. Masking replaces some characters with an alternate character, allowing tasks like vali-
dating credit card numbers without exposing all of a data field. Tokenization replaces values 
with a replacement value allowing data to be accessed without exposing the actual value. 
Steganography hides data in images and is not a useful solution in this scenario. Hashing is 
a mathematical technique that analyzes a file and computes a unique fingerprint, known as a 
message digest or hash, for that file.
57. C. Datacenters should have a fail over process that can be manually executed in case of 
emergency. Mateo should use that process to fail over to his organization’s fail over site. 
Turning off every system in a datacenter is not recommended as this may lead to other unex-
pected failures. Simulation is not a fail over test, and creating an outage of a critical system 
typically will not cause an entire datacenter to fail over.
58. A. Trade secrets are intellectual property that is commercially valuable and is limited to a 
small group of individuals. Regulated information is controlled by law or has legal require-
ments around it. Financial information involves things related to monetary transactions 
or accounts. Public information is not controlled and is available to the public or could be 
without causing harm or concern.
59. B. Implementing Transport Layer Security (TLS) to encapsulate Simple Mail Transfer Pro-
tocol (SMTP) would allow the traffic to be encrypted in transit, protecting it from being read. 
Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) are both used to 
prevent spoofing, and Exchangeable Image File Format (EXIF) is information found in an 
image file.
60. B. Jump servers are used to access secured zones and are typically carefully controlled and 
monitored because they are the single point of entry from untrusted environments. A Unified 
Threat Management (UTM) is a security device that combines firewall features with a variety 
of other security functions. ICS stands for Industrial Control System. This is not an ICS, 
although the IoT devices it allows connections to may be a form of ICS. VPNs, or virtual 
private networks, encapsulate and protect network traffic as it moves through untrusted 
networks.
61. C. IPSec virtual private networks are commonly established to tunnel through public or 
untrusted networks. A RTOS, or real- time operating system, is used for embedded systems. 
SHA- 1 is a hashing algorithm, and RSA is an encryption algorithm that is used for IPSec as 
part of its authentication process. IPSec tunnels themselves commonly use AES, but may use 
other algorithms as well.
62. B. Intellectual property that would have value to competitors and that is kept confidential to 
preserve it for competitive advantage is a trade secret. Legal information is typically related 
to contracts, regulations, or similar matters. Regulated data is covered by law, and classified 
data is used by governments.264 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
63. A. A unified threat management (UTM) device combines multiple security services including 
firewall, IDS or IPS, antivirus/antimalware, email filtering, WAF, and similar services into 
a single solution. An FWSM, or firewall service module, is an older Cisco chassis- based 
firewall; a WAF is a web application firewall; and an ELB is Elastic Load Balancer, a load- 
balancing service available via AWS.
64. A. Tabletop exercises do not involve an actual technical system and instead are gamed 
out in a room. This means they’re least likely to cause disruptions. Fail over and parallel 
processing exercises can have actual impact to live systems, and simulation exercises require 
care because simulated calls and actions may inadvertently become real if staff are not fully 
aware of the scenario being an exercise or accidentally execute a command that can cause 
actual impact.
65. B. Data sovereignty is a new concern for organizations that host services and data outside 
of their local area, including across state or national boundaries. Recovery point objectives 
(RPOs), recovery time objectives (RTOs), and power resilience are all common concerns for 
on- premises datacenters.
66. D. Disk encryption is used to protect data at rest, not data in use or data in transit. TLS, 
VPNs, and file encryption can all be used to protect files that are sent via a network.
67. B. A TLS- enabled proxy between the devices and server doesn’t require anything else to be 
installed on the devices, which is typically impossible with SCADA devices. That means the 
VPN connection and the X.509 certificates are unlikely to work. SD- WAN helps to manage 
external connectivity, not to directly protect traffic in this scenario.
68. C. Simulations try to avoid causing potential outages and work to simulate a scenario. They 
may validate that notification processes communication systems and procedures all work.
69. C. Geolocation is used to control where data can be accessed from but does not protect data 
in transit. Encrypting data, encapsulating via TLS, or use of a VPN are all common methods 
to protect data in transit.
70. B. Next- generation firewalls (NGFWs) typically provide the ability to inspect traffic at both 
the transport layer (layer 4) and the application layer (layer 7). This means an NGFW will 
best fit the need. Web application firewalls also work at this level, but only focus on web 
applications, which does not fully meet the broad application inspection requirement in the 
question. Stateful firewalls and packet filters both operate at layer 4 only.
71. C. A load balancer can help handle individual web server failures gracefully by moving load 
to the functioning web servers in a cluster. In scalable environments, this can also result in 
more servers being instantiated. Platform diversity helps to protect against failures or vul-
nerabilities in a single vendor, platform, or system. Multi-cloud systems could help in this 
case but are much more complex than required by the relatively simple need to handle an 
individual web server’s failure. A warm site would be suited to a datacenter failure, not a 
single web server failing.
72. A. In- line network taps are typically configured to fail- open since they are used to create 
a copy of the network traffic. Devices that provide in- line security like IPS systems may be Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  265
configured to fail-closed because their failure removes critical security functionality. Fail over 
describes the ability to fail to another device, which is not a common function for an in- line 
tap. Fail- reset was made up for this question.
73. D. Software- defined wide area networks (SD- WANs) are the core component of secure 
access, secure edge technology. Additional tools like zero trust functionality, cloud access 
security brokers, and firewalls are all combined to build a complete SASE implementation.
74. A. Network access control (NAC) has the ability to both profile device security and validate 
that a given user is authorized to plug a device into a specific Ethernet jack makes this the 
best solution for Mikayla’s use case. Port security’s list of recognized MAC addresses is both 
potentially vulnerable to MAC spoofing and does not meet the device security check require-
ments described. An IPS can help prevent network attacks but does not control port- level 
access, and jump servers are used to allow access to secured network segments, not to protect 
individual network jacks.
75. C. Version control will allow staff from Mark’s organization to identify a bad version and 
revert to a previous known- good version if needed. Threat modeling, least privilege, and arti-
fact signing are all common best practices for IaC, but don’t directly impact version changes.
76. A. PaaS vendors are responsible for the underlying service and platform, including the net-
works, systems, and infrastructure that it runs on, including their security. Customers are 
responsible for their use of the platform, including endpoints, users, and applications built on 
the platform, again including their security.
77. B. The biggest issue for resilience is that placing backups in the same facility as the devices 
or systems they are backing up means that a single disaster could destroy both. Nick should 
consider off-site backup storage. Tape recovery can be slow, but this is a restoration time-
frame issue, not a resilience issue. Tape lifetime is typically quite long, and backups are usu-
ally rolled over in time periods shorter than a year for most organizations. Finally, validation 
of backups can be a concern, but there is no description in the question that would lead to 
conclusions about testing.
78. B. AES- 256 is the current mainstream standard for encryption. AES 128 and 192 are both 
less secure, and AES- 512 is not an implemented or commonly used standard.
79. C. While RTOS issues with vulnerabilities, the inability to install security tools. and a lack of 
patches for RTOS- based devices are all common security concerns, they are not as frequently 
targeted by malware infections.
80. B. Tokens should not be easily reversible. Instead, they should require access to the original 
tokenization function or a mapping to the original data. Tokens should not have intrinsic 
meaning or value, and frequently rely on hash functions as part of their generation process to 
ensure this.
81. B. Replication is typically the fastest means to recovery since the replica system is running 
and ready to take over. Snapshot recovery is normally the next fastest, followed by restora-
tion from other storage. Journaling can introduce additional slowdowns depending on how 266 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
long it has been since the last backup, as the journal is replayed from the time that occurred 
to the time of failure.
82. D. The Security+ exam outline recognizes three data states: data at rest, data in transit, and 
data in use. When Henry accesses the data and it is transferred via the network, it is data in 
transit. When he is working with the data, including modifying or otherwise using it, it is 
data in use. When it resides on the drives the database is stored in, it is data at rest. Data on 
the wire is not a common term for this— data in motion and data in transit are both common 
in industry usage, and the Security+ exam outline uses data in transit.
83. C. Data sovereignty means that governments have the ability to control data within their 
borders via law and regulations. Theresa’s organization will need to comply with the laws of 
each country they operate in. Obfuscation refers to making something difficult to understand 
or read. Legal holds are used to require preservation of data when legal action is occurring 
or pending. Geographic restriction is used to limit where data can be accessed from and is a 
technical control used by organizations as part of data security efforts.
84. A. Hrant’s use of an IPS means he wants to be in- line to allow him to block traffic. Since 
he prefers that a failure remain secure rather than potentially allowing attacks through, he 
should select a fail- closed implementation.
85. C. Physical isolation requires the creation of an air gap. This means unplugging the device 
from the network. A secure VLAN won’t accomplish this, nor will 802.1X. Unplugging the 
device from power isn’t required for physical isolation.
86. A. Path diversity ensures that the connectivity to the facility does not take the same path. 
This helps to prevent the moment network managers dread when a single accident— or 
construction equipment in the wrong place— tears up multiple fiber or copper paths, taking 
organizations offline. Diversity of the cabling type is not a requirement or need, SD- WAN 
does not directly address physical disasters, and geographic dispersion is not possible at a 
single site.
87. D. Carlos is using a jump server that is used to connect from an untrusted or lower trust 
zone from outside of a firewall. A network tap is used to provide copies of network traffic 
for analysis. SASE combines SD- WAN and other security technologies to provide network 
security services regardless of where systems are for enterprises. SD- WAN (software- defined 
wide area networking) is used to manage network connectivity through commodity Internet 
providers and other services.
88. B. Capacity planning for disaster operations needs to take the impact on staff themselves 
into account. While modern operations can frequently be conducted remotely, reducing the 
number of staff required to be physically able to reach the site, staff members may not have 
power, Internet access, or even housing in disaster scenarios. The remote site’s ability to 
operate is not directly a staff capacity planning issue, nor is how generators will be fueled.
89. A. Typical exercise types for most organizations include simulations that emulate an actual 
incident response process, walk- throughs that guide staff through an event, and tabletop 
exercises that are gamed out without taking actual action. Drills are classified as more 
focused on specific actions or functions, and they are less common because they can result in 
inadvertent action or mistakes and do not cover the breadth of an incident.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  267
90. D. Comparing hashes is an effective way of determining if a file is different from the 
original. While file length may be the same and metadata can be modified, hashes will still 
show changes. Encrypting the files does not compare them, and should not be used for this 
purpose.
91. B. Off-site backup locations are typically chosen so that they will not be impacted by the 
same disaster. That means that recovery may be slow if the backups either need to be phys-
ically retrieved or must be downloaded via an Internet connection. Backup integrity is typi-
cally verified as part of the backup process, and this can be checked easily. Off-site backups 
are typically updated as part of the backup process, and this should not be an issue.
92. B. Load balancers are commonly used to help provide resilience by allowing applications 
and servers to be clustered. Cross- training staff is a people-  or staff- based capacity planning 
solution. Both geographically diverse datacenters and UPS are examples of infrastructure 
resilience options.
93. C. The European Union’s (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a privacy 
regulation, and thus, data covered by the GDPR is regulated data. The GDPR does include 
language that addresses not adversely impacting the rights of others, including intellectual 
property rights, particularly in terms of software, but the best answer remains that this is reg-
ulated data. Trade secrets and legal information are not broad enough to describe this data.
94. B. Journaling replays transactions, which can take an extended period of time if the time 
between the last backup and the data loss event was longer and there was a high volume of 
transactions. Journals typically minimize the amount of transaction data that is lost; they can 
be encrypted, although care must be taken to ensure that they can be recovered; and journal-
ing is used with live databases to ensure transactions are recoverable to as close to the point 
in time of a data loss event as possible.
95. C. Using UPS with generators will allow systems to remain online during a power out-
age even if the power outage extends for some time. Generators alone will not spin up fast 
enough to avoid an outage, and UPS systems will run out of battery power in extended out-
ages. A warm site requires setup time to bring it online, resulting in an outage.
96. A. Masking may be conducted in client- side code, resulting in potential exposures of data. 
Secure designs require masking to occur in server- side code rather than in the client- side web 
application. Tokenization typically relies on a separate database or field, making it less likely 
to be a problem. Encryption and hashing are both unlikely to have problems with client- side 
tampering, making them less secure.
97. C. Top Secret and Secret are examples of government classifications. Businesses typically use 
classifications like sensitive, confidential, and public.
98. D. Compute is rarely a significant concern for embedded systems. They’re designed to 
function for long periods of time performing a specific function and do not have addi-
tional software or functions added. How easy they are to deploy, if they can be patched and 
updated, and the support lifespan as guaranteed or promised by the vendor, and risk trans-
ference by engaging third- party vendors are all likely concerns for a major industrial control 
system (ICS) deployment that Malia can control through the selection process.268 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
99. B. Layer 7 is the application layer. In order the layers are: 1 – physical, 2 – data link, 3 – 
network, 4 – transport, 5 – session, 6 – presentation, and 7 – application. The Security+ 
exam outline only focuses on Layer 4 and Layer 7 in the context of network security 
devices that can operate at those layers.
100. C. These are all examples of embedded systems, computers built into devices to allow them 
to function. Other examples include computers built into cars, digital cameras, and ther -
mostats. They often receive fewer (or no) updates, and are required to function for long 
periods of time as part of other devices or systems.
101. D. Microservices are loosely coupled and fine- grained, and they are intended to be easy to 
deploy without significant overhead or dependencies. They rely on lightweight protocols 
like HTTP to make them easier to deploy in common infrastructures. Containers are used 
to allow applications to be easily deployed without moving a complete operating system 
but with the required libraries and components to function. The Internet of Things (IoT) 
describes Internet- enabled devices of all sorts, including embedded systems. Software- 
defined infrastructure is commonly used for cloud services.
102. A. Incremental backups only include the data that has changed since the last full 
backup. To restore a backup using incremental backups, the full backup is restored, then 
incremental backups are applied in order from oldest to most recent. Partial backups 
describe a backup of only certain data or parts of a system. Daily backups are just that— 
daily— and may be full or incremental. Snapshots are point- in- time images of a system’s or 
a device’s data and memory.
103. C. Sharon is most likely part of a simulation exercise, where organizations test how they 
would respond to a scenario without taking actual actions. This is safer than a fail over or 
parallel processing test but is closer to a real event than a tabletop exercise.
104. A. Generators are used by organizations that need to handle extended power outages. They 
are commonly paired with UPS systems that handle the immediate power outage, allow-
ing the generator to start and stabilize. Solar power alone is not a good solution without 
a significant battery system, and datacenter- scale battery systems paired with solar are not 
yet common. PDUs (power distribution units) are used to distribute and control power in a 
datacenter but do not provide power generation or backup capabilities.
105. C. Physically isolating the network for the SCADA and ICS systems can prevent attacks 
from outside of the network. In critical infrastructure like power generation stations, this 
is a common technique to ensure that external attacks cannot cause outages to critical 
physical infrastructure. Separate VLANs is a common logical control, but attacks against 
the network or using VLAN hopping techniques can allow attackers to bypass the sep-
aration. TLS is useful for protecting traffic but does not meet the security requirement 
described, and SDN is useful for managing networks but again does not meet the enhanced 
security requirements in the question.
106. D. Hardware addresses, known as MAC addresses, are used for port security to determine 
which systems can connect to a port. Their IP address, the network card manufacturer, and 
the user’s password are not used by port security.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  269
107. C. Generators are typically sized to the datacenter they support, so capacity is rarely a pri-
mary concern. Fuel availability, maintenance and maintenance cycles for extended runs, and 
ensuring physical redundancy so that a secondary generator can take over during mainte-
nance cycles for long outages are all common concerns.
108. B. Geographic restrictions are rarely helpful for insider threats because insiders are likely 
to already be in the same location as authorized users in most organizations. Encryption, 
tokenization, and permission restrictions can all be used to ensure that only authorized 
users gain access to the data.
109. C. Use of encryption through secure enclaves and restricted processing environments, 
controlling access to the data, and limiting where data is processed are all useful controls. 
Hashing the data does not leave it in a usable form since hashes transform the data, and 
thus is not a useful solution.
110. B. UPS systems are perfectly suited to handling short power outages and temporary under -
voltage events. They sit between systems and grid power, ensuring clean, reliable power is 
available. Generators take time to start, meaning that a UPS + generator solution is used for 
longer outages. PDUs (power distribution units) are used to distribute and manage power in 
datacenters. Solar power is increasingly used by datacenters to help offset their power con-
sumption but is not a solution during nighttime hours.
111. A. Containers do not include an operating system, but do contain applications, libraries, 
and configuration files.
112. C. SD- WAN, or software- defined wide area network, is a virtual wide area network 
architecture that relies on a software- based controller to manage multiple connections and 
connection types. MPLS, LTE, and broadband are commonly managed using SD- WAN 
technology. SASE, or Secure Access Service Edge, is used to provide end- to- end security 
in modern environments with systems and users spread throughout many locations and 
networks. SDN, or software- defined networking, is a code- based network management 
scheme. However, SD- WAN is the correct answer for wide area networks that rely on 
things like MPLS and broadband rather than on- premises networks. VSAN, or virtual SAN, 
is a virtual storage area network.
113. C. An IPS, or intrusion prevention system, can stop attacks based on behaviors and threat 
feed data. An IDS can detect attacks using the same information but cannot stop them. 
Proxy servers are used to filter content but do not meet this requirement, and jump servers 
are used for secure access into higher trust environments.
114. A. Contracts, nondisclosure agreements (NDAs), and statements of work (SOWs) are all 
examples of legal information. They may include trade secrets or financial information but 
do not have to. Regulated data is regulated by law and is not the same as legal information.
115. A. Using threat feeds allows administrators to have rules that automatically block new 
threats using IP reputation and other services. Those detections may rely on application 
awareness or deep packet inspection, but without the feed information new rules will have 
to be crafted to address specific new threats. High throughput allows NGFW devices to 
deal with significant load as well as the demands of deep packet inspection and application 
awareness.270 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
116. C. IPSec VPNs provide encryption, which allows for confidentiality and integrity through 
hashing. They also provide authentication because both ends authenticate as part of the 
VPN connection process. Availability is not a feature of an IPSec connection, and it must 
be designed and built into the hardware and network infrastructure that the IPSec VPN 
relies on.
117. B. GPS and Wi- Fi are commonly used to enforce geofencing by determining where 
individual devices are. Bluetooth may be used in some cases as well, but Wi- Fi and GPS are 
the dominant options. DNS is not used as part of geographic restrictions, nor is encryption.
118. D. Infrastructure- as- a- service (IaaS) providers are responsible for the underlying infrastruc-
ture, including datacenters, networks, and physical hosts. In some cases, they may also be 
responsible for some operating systems, network controls, applications, and Identity and 
Access Management (IAM) infrastructure. Customers are always responsible for data and 
accounts, but may be responsible for applications, network controls, and operating systems 
as well.
119. C. Ensuring that third- party vendors are held to appropriate standards is best accom-
plished through contracts with direct suppliers. Since the third- party vendors sign contracts 
with Kirk’s cloud provider, not with Kirk’s organization, the only way to have influence 
over them is through the cloud service provider. Audits and vulnerability scans will typically 
not be allowed by organizations that do not have a contract with a vendor.
120. C. VPNs, or virtual private networks, are commonly established between two locations to 
provide a secure connection that can make the networks appear to be on the same network 
segment. A VLAN may then be used if desired, but a VLAN alone does not provide encryp-
tion and cannot be set up across a public connection. TLS encapsulating each service would 
provide security, but that would not make the two sites appear to be on the same network 
segment. Reclassifying the data does not secure the data or make the networks appear to be 
on the same segment, either.
121. B. Replication can be synchronous or asynchronous but focuses on keeping an up- do- date 
copy of live data. It does not require high- speed media but does require storage media that 
is fast enough to keep up with the speed of change from the production environment. Rep-
lication does not rely on journaling or snapshots.
122. B. NGFW devices are typically deployed where throughput and advanced security features 
are both needed. UTM devices are more common in small to mid- sized organizations where 
they can be set up and will often require less management and configuration. A WAF is 
appropriate for web services, but does not provide enough protection for an entire organi-
zation’s Internet connectivity. A proxy server is useful for filtering traffic but has the same 
issues with limited functionality.
123. B. Barb needs to back up her data at least once every 6 hours to meet a 6- hour RPO, and 
Barb might even choose to run her backups slightly more often to ensure the RPO can be 
met. Running backups every hour significantly exceeds that target, and may have other 
implications on performance time to recover, so a more aggressive timeframe would need 
to be carefully reviewed. Every 12 or 24 hours would not meet the RPO set by Barb’s 
company.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  271
124. A. Since the data is not actively being moved between systems or via a network, and it is 
not being processed, it is data at rest. If the database was being actively accessed, the data 
might be in transit when it was sent to an application server and in use as the server pro-
cessed it. Data sovereignty is the concept that countries can regulate data within their own 
borders.
125. D. Masking replaces some characters with an alternate character, allowing tasks like val-
idating credit card numbers without exposing all of a data field. Encryption and hashing 
would transform the data, not replace it with an alternate character. Data classification is 
involved, but it’s not a data obfuscation technique.
126. D. COOP plans address loss of access to some or all of a facility, personnel, or services. 
Other items may cause those losses, but the focus is on continued operations addressing the 
key components of an organization’s business or purpose— facilities, staff, and services.
127. C. Switch Port Analyzer (SPAN) ports, also known as mirrored ports, configured on a net-
work switch or router are active because the device is powered and are a monitor because 
they simply copy traffic rather than being inline.
128. B. A major advantage of WAFs is the ability to use thread and rule feeds from vendors 
that quickly respond to new threats and attacks. At the same time, Renee can also build 
WAF rules faster than it would take to deploy code fixes in many cases. Penetration test-
ing and static code review are both slow processes and are not suited to the rapid respond 
described. SASE is used to protect diverse endpoints in many locations, not to counter SQL 
injection (SQLi) against a web service.
129. D. Many vendors offer a managed service that provides rules that stop trending and new 
attacks. Maria can subscribe to the service, but needs to be aware that sometimes rules 
may cause outages or issues if they block legitimate traffic accidentally. Manually deploy-
ing rules is slow and requires careful crafting. The Open Worldwide Application Security 
Project (OWASP) Top 10 is a short list and it is not updated quickly. Threat feeds are useful 
as a way to write rules but will be less effective than a managed service in most cases due to 
the variety of attacks and new threats.
130. B. Each network segment should be considered a separate security zone that can be 
managed and secured appropriately for its ongoing use. Networks are not typically consid-
ered fail-open or fail-closed— devices are. Data classification is used to label data.
131. D. Load balancers can help with availability by automatically removing failed notes from 
a load balanced group. They can help with responsiveness by distributing load to the least 
loaded systems in a load balanced pool, and they can help with scalability by allowing sys-
tems to transparently be added or removed from the pool. They don’t directly help with 
risk transference since risk transference usually requires a contract or insurance.
132. D. When Angie logs in, her authentication data is processed, making it data in use. Data at 
rest is data that is stored and not in active use or processing. Data in storage and data in 
validation were made up for this question and are not typically considered data states.272 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
133. B. A TLS- based VPN (often called an SSL- based VPN, despite SSL being outmoded) pro-
vides the easiest way for users to use VPN since it does not require a client. SSL VPNs also 
work only for specific applications rather than making a system appear as though it is 
fully on a remote network. HTML5 is not a VPN technology, but some VPN portals may 
be built using HTML5. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is not a VPN tech-
nology. IPSec VPNs require a client or configuration and are thus harder for end users to 
use in most cases.
134. C. Device placement can matter due to physical risks or because of concerns about latency, 
access to services, or other considerations. Connectivity concerns focus on whether an 
organization can obtain a network connection and whether it meets the organization’s 
needs, including throughput and reliability. Geographic dispersion refers to the distance 
between locations that helps to ensure that a single disaster does not take an organization 
offline. Attack surface is the set of services, ports, and physical access that an attacker could 
leverage.
135. B. Decentralized approaches can provide increased resilience since a failure or compromise 
of the management plane or services in a single location will not disrupt other locations. 
Unfortunately, this normally comes with increased cost and complexity. Increased com-
plexity is not an advantage.
136. C. In an infrastructure as code (IaC) environment, updating the code that defines what 
a fully patched server is, then replacing servers in a cluster one at a time will be the least 
disruptive option while also ensuring that future instances will have the patches installed. 
Rebuilding a base image each time a patch comes out is not efficient, and manually patch-
ing is not a best practice in IaC environments and may lead to human error.
137. A. The data should not be released or exposed and could cause harm. This means that con-
fidential best describes this data from the list of available terms. Restricted data is typically 
limited to a subset of staff, but that is not reflected in the question. The data is also not 
described as being critical to the operations of the organization; instead the emphasis is on 
confidentiality. Since this data must remain confidential, it is not public data.
138. A. Legacy devices typically cannot be purchased, so their cost becomes irrelevant. Whether 
they can be recovered, if patches are available, and the issues that lack of patching may 
cause are all common issues for legacy devices.
139. B. UTM devices commonly provide firewall, IPS, antivirus/antimalware, and a variety of 
other services. They are also commonly part of SD- WAN architectures, but do not them-
selves provide the SD- WAN service.
140. A. TLS VPNs are typically easier to set up and don’t require clients to be installed, unlike 
an IPSec VPN. SD- WAN is used to manage external connectivity, and software- defined net-
working (SDN) is used to manage networks and their performance, not to allow remote 
access by users.
141. B. Moving devices to an isolated network segment that has appropriate controls in place to 
protect devices that may not be able to be secured or that may not receive regular patches is 
the best option available. Baselines, patching, and even scanning and remediation only help Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  273
if the devices can be secured, patched, and otherwise protected. IoT devices are often not 
able to be secured this way, particularly as they age and both lighting and thermostats have 
relatively long useful lifespans.
142. B. Secure access service edge (SASE) deployments combine SD- WAN with a variety of 
cloud- hosted security services, including zero trust and CASB tools to replace VPNs. This 
provides an edge device–oriented security architecture with end- to- end security. SaaS is 
involved but is not a specific enough answer. SONET is a communication protocol used for 
fiber networks. Supply chain management (SCM) is not a term used in this context.
143. A. Fail over testing goes beyond parallel processing and completely takes over running 
services. This is the most complex and risky testing mode, but also the only one that com-
pletely tests failure scenarios in a real- world exercise. Simulations and tabletops are more 
abstract and would not test the site, instead focusing on practices and behaviors.
144. C. Cold sites are spaces that are ready to be used in a disaster but without equipment 
or other necessary items in place to quickly take over production if needed. A warm site 
would have some hardware ready to be used, but the hardware would not be configured 
or otherwise ready for immediate resumption of service. A hot site is prepared to take over 
processing for an organization immediately, and infrastructure is running in parallel with 
your production site. Geographic dispersion is used to ensure that a single disaster does not 
impact multiple sites.
145. C. Tabletop exercises are not simulations and typically do not involve simulated calls to 
resources. Simulations are a different type of exercise and have the potential for disruptions 
if staff are not aware of the exercise being conducted.
146. B. This type of architecture leverages the idea of platform diversity. Having multiple ven-
dors and platforms helps to ensure that a single vendor’s failure or vulnerability does 
not prevent an organization from continuing to function. Platform agnostic is not on the 
Security+ exam but typically means that organizations don’t have a vested interest in which 
platform is selected or used. Multi-cloud environments run in multiple cloud vendors’ tools, 
but this question involves physical router hardware. Parallel processing is a failure testing 
mode where two or more sites run at the same time during a test.
147. C. Kaito is using a weighted least connection load balancing approach, which distributes 
traffic based on both a server weight and connection number count. Source IP hashing uses 
a hash of the source and destination IP addresses to determine which server receives the 
connection. This also allows for interrupted sessions to go to the same server. Resource- 
based load balancing takes into account the availability of resources like CPU, memory, and 
network bandwidth for a server. Round- robin load balancing simply distributes connections 
as they come in by moving through a list of servers.
148. A. Attack surfaces are the potential points for an attack to occur. For devices, this is often 
the open services. For organizations, attack surfaces can include open ports and services, 
physical security concerns, and human vectors. Security zones are a way for organizations 
to categorize and manage different devices and systems based on security classification. 
Scalability describes whether a service or system can grow or shrink to handle demand or 
load. Resilience describes if a system or service can tolerate issues that might otherwise 
result in outages.274 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
149. C. An infrastructure- as- a- service (IaaS) cloud- hosted model where a third- party provider 
focuses on scalability and administration of a containerization service will meet Geoff’s 
needs. When scaling from low to very large load is a common event, the ability to grow or 
shrink in a cloud environment can also provide significant cost savings over paying for an 
on- premises option that can handle the full scaling event. Software as a service (SaaS) and 
platform as a service (PaaS) provide full applications or platforms, not containerization 
environments.
150. B. Financial data includes transactions, accounts, and many other types of information 
related to finances. Intellectual property is a broad category of data created by humans. 
Public information is information that is available to the public, and trade secrets are kept 
private to a limited number of individuals in a company for competitive advantage or other 
purposes.
151. B. Clustering involves using two or more systems to provide a service as though they’re a 
single server. Load balancing spreads workloads across multiple independent systems while 
front- ending them with a load balancer device or service to distribute load. Fail-open means 
that if a network device fails, traffic continues to pass through it. Fail- closed devices stop 
traffic if they fail. Decisions about fail-open and fail-closed are made based on security in 
most cases, with fail-closed being more secure if the organization relies on the device for 
security.
152. C. PCI DSS is a credit card data security standard, meaning that Alaina is most likely 
dealing with financial information. PCI DSS does not directly address intellectual property 
or trade secrets, and it’s not a regulation.
153. B. Snapshots are used to copy both the data and machine state for virtual machines. Journ-
aling is used for databases and similar uses where replaying actions can be useful to recover 
if an issue occurs. Replication copies the data synchronously or asynchronously, allowing 
for a separate copy to be available at all times. Grandfather/Father/Son is a backup cycle 
commonly used for tape backup.
154. D. Parallel processing allows for systems to be tested without taking them offline. This 
means that in the event of an issue with the backup systems or facility, the primary facility 
can continue to operate. Parallel processing does allow for more throughput, but orga-
nizations should not rely on this as parallel processing environments need to be able to 
handle the full load for the organization if the primary or backup fails. Fail over does test 
redundant systems and does not require organizations to create a significant issue. Instead, 
manual fail over processes are used to conduct fail over tests.
155. D. Placing the IPS inline at position D will reduce the amount of traffic it has to filter while 
still allowing it to filter traffic bound for the datacenter. Points A, B, and C will all have 
more traffic, although point A will have the most, with reductions likely at points C and D.
156. B. Increased complexity can include jurisdictional challenges, increased cost, and regulatory 
challenges as well as visibility challenges, management overhead increases, and a wide 
range of additional challenges from operating in multiple locations and models.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  275
157. D. In general, fail over connections should be able to handle an organization’s full 
throughput. Overprovisioning for 100 Gbps will typically create significantly more cost 
not only for connectivity but also for network devices that can handle high speeds, and 
underprovisioning at 5 Gbps will mean that traffic would need to be reduced in a fail over 
scenario.
158. A. A hot site is prepared to take over processing for on organization immediately, and 
infrastructure is running in parallel with your production site. A warm site would have 
some hardware ready to be used, but the hardware would not be configured or otherwise 
ready for immediate resumption of service. Cold sites are spaces that are ready to be used 
in a disaster but without equipment or other necessary items in place to quickly take over 
production if needed. The term dispersion site is not commonly used, but the concept of 
geographic dispersion describes placement of sites with sufficient distance between them to 
make the likelihood of a single disaster impacting both quite low.
159. C. Geographic dispersion is unlikely for a single building’s network core. Redundancy, 
power backups, and multiple connectivity options are commonly part of designing a highly 
available network.
160. C. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA), Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), and the 
Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLBA) are all regulations, meaning that data they cover is regu-
lated data. Intellectual property is the result of human creativity, classified data is a designa-
tion used by governments, and trade secrets are proprietary data with limited access often 
used by organizations for competitive advantage.
161. A. Virtual machine (VM) escape attacks attempt to access or gain control of the underlying 
hypervisor through virtual machines. While uncommon, if this occurred it could result in 
serious issues due to the number of systems run on a single hypervisor host particularly in 
cloud or shared environments. The other options were made up for the question.
162. B. AH (Authentication Header), ESP (Encapsulating Security Payload), and IKE (Internet 
Key Exchange) are all important IPSec (Internet Protocol Security) protocols. ISA is not an 
IPSec protocol.
163. D. Intrusion detection systems are considered passive systems because they cannot block 
traffic. Active systems like firewalls, IPS, and proxies all have the ability to directly interact 
with and stop or allow traffic. Air gapped devices do not have a physical connection to a 
network, or they are on a separate network that is not connected to other networks. Fail- 
closed devices stop traffic when they fail. Most IPS systems are not deployed inline since 
they do not need to be interactive and having them inline only creates another potential 
failure point.
164. C. Hashing uses a one- way function and should not be able to be reversed. This means that 
you can use hashing to securely store a password because you can hash the password, then 
compare hashes without needing to know the password. If you hash a database field, how-
ever, there’s no way to know what the original data was from the hash. Hashing should not 
be reversible, and it does not use symmetric or asymmetric encryption.276 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
165. C. Tokenizing the data in a separate database will allow both the original unaltered data-
base and a secured database to be used. This reduces risk while retaining data integrity 
where required. Steganography hides data in images and does not fit this use case. Masking 
only conceals data and does not protect it against attacks against the underlying application 
or database in many cases. Hashing the original database will transform the data, and using 
a single database remains risky.
166. C. SCADA and ICS systems often suffer from a lack of patches and updates. Cost is typi-
cally amortized over long periods of time, and SCADA and ICS systems are critical to orga-
nizational functions. Scalability is rarely a concern for embedded devices, and SCADA and 
ICS devices are designed for long life cycles and reliability.
167. C. In a SDN environment, the SDN controller provides manages and controls all the net-
work devices, including switches and routers. That means that a compromise of the SDN 
controller would result in compromise of the entire network. No mention is made of  
SD- WAN in the question, so we don’t know the connectivity or relative importance of  
SD- WAN in the scenario.
168. B. Third- party support availability is an example of risk transference where the support 
contract moves the risk to the contractor. Availability and responsiveness may be consid-
erations for the contractor, but the ability to obtain support doesn’t imply either of these. 
Compute is most commonly a concern where embedded devices or hardware solutions may 
not have sufficient computational power to meet new needs.
169. A. Network access control (NAC) tools that can allow for authentication and authoriza-
tion based on user groups or roles and VLANs that separate groups based on those roles 
once they’re on the network exactly fit the needs Yarif has. 802.1X can also be helpful 
with this, but containerization is used to allow applications to be deployed without wor -
rying about the application environment. SDN and MAC address filtering doesn’t account 
for user authentication and identities, just machine hardware addresses. SD- WAN is for 
external connectivity, not internal networks.
170. A. A simulation is the closest you can get to a real- world event without having one.  
A tabletop exercise has personnel discussing scenarios, whereas a walk- through goes 
through checklists and procedures. A wargame is not a common exercise type.
171. B. Serverless deployments remove the need to patch underlying infrastructure. They may 
still have vulnerable functions and should be logged. Cost savings is not a direct security 
advantage.
172. D. In a large- scale disaster scenario, personnel may be unwilling or unable to report to 
work. Organizations planning for disaster in an area where their personnel live and work 
often need to identify ways to ensure staffing in a scenario that impacts their staff. Lack of 
facility power is not a personnel issue. Authentication should be part of the hot- site capa-
bility. Insider threats are not a common concern during disasters.
173. D. ACLs, VLANs, and firewalls are all commonly used to implement network 
segmentation. Due to the operational challenges that air gaps create, they are far less com-
monly implemented and are only used when absolutely necessary.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  277
174. C. Binary files like executable programs are examples of non- human- readable data. That’s 
one of the reasons encoding schemes like XML were created for data files that can allow 
both machines and humans to read and interact with data. Restricted and confidential are 
both classification schemes that businesses may use to describe their organizational data.
175. D. Journaling tracks transactions as they occur. Unless the journal itself was lost, Melissa 
should be able to restore the backup, then replay the journal to ensure the organization 
loses very little data.
176. B. SCADA systems are often used to manage industrial control systems (ICSs). SDN and 
SD- WAN are used to manage networks and connectivity respectively, whereas Active 
Directory is used to manage Windows servers and workstations in a domain environment.
177. B. Encrypted backups require the encryption key, so Maria’s organization will need to pre-
serve and protect the recovery key in a secure manner that does not rely on the backups. 
This is often done via multiple physical copies of the key stored in secured locations with 
geographic diversity or using both physical and cloud secure storage like a key management 
system (KMS).
178. D. Replication is a continuous process and because of this it does not require restoration 
processes like restoring differential backups or journals to allow data to be used. Backups 
are periodic, and they typically require additional restoration work in order to be used.
179. D. Erin will need to restore the full backup, then apply the differential backups from each 
of the remaining three days for a total of four backups.
180. A. IPSec VPNs operate at the network layer instead of the transport layer. That means less 
information is visible to potential attackers. Both support strong encryption, IPSec VPNs do 
support tunneling, and not relying on tunneling is not an advantage in most use cases.
181. D. Vera can use a SD- WAN, or software- defined wide area network, to manage multiple 
connections dynamically, ensuring connectivity and performance for her organization. SASE 
is used to secure networks and device connectivity in modern organizations with complex 
and mobile boundaries. SDN is software- defined networking and manages networks as 
code. IPSec is a suite of protocols used to secure network traffic.
182. A. Embedded devices typically have minimal CPUs, memory, and storage. They prioritize 
responsiveness for their core functions, and thus availability and responsiveness are typi-
cally met with the device. Cost for embedded devices is typically associated with the larger 
device they’re part of rather than the embedded device itself as they are there to monitor or 
operate the system.
183. C. Intellectual property is intangible creations by the human mind. Patents, copyrights, 
trademarks, and trade secrets are all examples of intellectual property. Intellectual property 
is not necessarily sensitive data, but it could be.
184. C. Storage capacity should be part of Jaime’s infrastructure planning to ensure that large 
volumes of logs do not overwhelm her infrastructure. Compute is typically not an issue 
with logs, but it could be with log analysis later in her design process. People and power are 
not directly impacted by logging, but people might be needed for log analysis later as well.278 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
185. B. This organization is using a decentralized model where there is no datacenter or primary 
hosting or operational facility. With remote workers making up much of the company, 
as well as flexible working locations, this design makes sense for the company but intro-
duces additional complexity because endpoints will need to be secured wherever they are, 
regardless of what network they are on. A centralized design can somewhat simplify that, 
but modern application stacks and working conditions often make that less likely. This is 
not an on- premises design since workers and cloud tools are remote. There is no description 
of segmentation in the question.
186. B. Mobile device management (MDM) tools are often used to enforce geographic restric-
tions on devices by using GPS and Wi- Fi to determine where they are and to limit their 
access to sensitive systems or data if they are not in an allowed geographic boundary. This 
often matches being in a specific office building with known Wi- Fi for highly sensitive 
access or work hour requirements. Endpoint detection and response (EDR) is used to 
counter ransomware and other malicious software, 802.1X is used to control access to net-
works, and VPNs are used to provide site- to- site connectivity through untrusted networks 
as well as to location shift devices.
187. B. Round- robin load balancer algorithms spread load by assigning incoming connec-
tions to servers or services on a list. This helps to spread the load evenly even without 
awareness of the relative load each connection creates or that the server is under simply 
by relying on connections evening out over time. Load- based and capacity- based models 
use more knowledge of the state of the servers or services. User pinning is not a load 
balancing model.
188. C. Encryption is the most effective way to protect data at rest. Classification is use-
ful to ensure data is handled in appropriate ways, but does not directly protect the data. 
Segmentation can help keep data in the right locations with appropriate controls around it, 
but again does not directly protect the data if the server or data store is accessible. Hashing 
is a one- way function and does not leave data in a usable state for most purposes that rely 
on the data being intact and in its original form.
189. C. Environmental sensor appliances are frequently deployed to datacenters and network 
closets to monitor for potential issues like high temperatures. Heating, ventilation, and 
air- conditioning (HVAC) systems monitor and control temperatures, but datacenters com-
monly add additional monitoring tools in case the HVAC system fails or other issues arise. 
UPS systems are not used for environmental monitoring, and load balancers are used to 
distribute load to servers and services.
190. B. Organizations typically deploy both a UPS and a generator (or generators!). Long 
power outages will drain the batteries that a UPS relies on. Since UPS systems are typically 
intended to run for minutes, rather than hours, for datacenters this should be Danielle’s first 
concern. No generator was mentioned, and in fact the UPS is her only power resilience con-
trol. While a UPS may experience issues with surges when power resumes, temporary drops 
in voltage, and power outages are not uncommon even on well- maintained power grids, 
and UPS systems are designed to handle them under normal circumstances while protecting 
the systems they provide emergency power to.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  279
191. C. An IPSec VPN is a common option for organizations that need to create a secure VPN 
tunnel between two locations. A VPN connection is established by network devices at both 
locations and traffic is able to travel securely over commodity Internet connections. TLS 
VPNs are more commonly used for individuals to connect to an organization’s network. 
Web proxies are used to filter and control web traffic, not for this purpose. 802.1X is used 
to authenticate to networks and protect them from unauthorized connections, not to create 
secure, multisite tunnels.
192. C. Port security associates a list of allowed hardware (MAC) addresses with a port and 
only allows systems with permitted MAC addresses to connect to and send traffic through 
the network port. 802.1X uses authentication, which can include userIDs and multifactor. 
IP addresses are not a way that port security filters systems.
193. C. TLS VPNs provide an easier user experience from the browser without installing addi-
tional software or additional configuration like an IPSec VPN typically requires. A jump 
server is used for access to secure zones but isn’t ideal for traveling and remote employees— 
often a VPN is used to access a jump server in scenarios like that. SD- WAN is useful to 
manage connectivity options, not for individual users.
194. A. The virtual machine’s power state, memory state, and disk are all captured as part of a 
snapshot. The underlying hypervisor’s configuration is not captured by a snapshot.
195. B. Data sovereignty concerns are driven by where the data resides, and geolocation can 
help understand the applicable law or regulations. Data can be at rest, in use, or in transit 
in any given location. Data criticality is determined by an organization, not by its location.
196. D. SCADA manages complex systems by combining central and local control systems with 
communication systems to manage large- scale industrial processes. The endpoint devices 
described may be embedded systems, Internet of Things (IoT), or real- time operating sys-
tems (RTOSs), but together they are a SCADA system.
197. D. Penetration tests will typically include vulnerability scanning as well as other activities 
that can provide a more complete view of an organization’s Internet- facing attack surface. 
OSINT alone will not provide technical testing. Threat feeds do not provide information 
about a specific organization’s attack surface, and vulnerability scanning may not reveal 
other issues like application issues.
198. A. IoT devices are typically deployed for long periods of time, meaning that over time the 
complexity of managing a multiple device and vendor environment is the largest concern. 
Initial concerns about ease of deployment would exist but could be overcome. Availability 
and resilience are both typically helped by platform diversity as outages or issues found 
with one device or vendor should not impact others.
199. B. A secure enclave is one way of protecting data in use. This relies on secured hardware 
that stores data that is in use and that only allows processes that run in the enclave from 
accessing data. Hashing, containerization, and using tunneling do not provide security for 
data in use.280 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
200. B. There is no connection between the two network security zones in Model 2. This is an 
air gapped model with physical isolation. Logical segmentation would show VLANs or 
other logical segmentation options. Servers are shown, easily dismissing serverless as an 
option, and there is no indication of whether this is an on- premises or an off-site design.
201. C. Masking, encryption, and tokenization are all examples of data obfuscation methods 
that protect against data exposure. None of these are encryption or classification methods, 
and none of them are tagging methods, although classification often involves tagging data if 
it will be managed or monitored using automated methods.
202. B. IP hash relies on a hash of the client and server’s IP addresses to associate them with a 
server. Even if you’re not familiar with load- balancing techniques, you can rule out round- 
robin, which simply distributes sessions through a list in order; weighted least connection, 
which looks at which servers have the least traffic and a weight assigned to the server; and 
resource- based, which looks at how heavily loaded a server is.
203. A. 802.1X allows for authentication via EAP, then assignment to a VLAN based on a role 
or other attributes. EAP alone does not perform this function, port security leverages MAC 
addresses to determine if a system is allowed to connect, and VLAN tagging is part of how 
traffic is labeled for a specific VLAN but does not support authentication or role- based 
labels directly.
204. B. Logical segmentation uses software to define and create segmentation. VLANs are 
defined at the network layer using VLAN tags. Air gapping would remove network connec-
tivity between a system or systems and other networks to prevent access via the network. 
Physical segmentation would require separate network infrastructure. Physical isolation 
typically means removing a system from a network.
205. A. Wi- Fi and other on premises network solutions are not typically part of an SD- WAN 
implementation. SD- WAN focuses on wide area networks, which are outside the on- 
premises network borders of organizations, and thus technologies like MPLS, broadband, 
and LTE are used with SD- WAN controllers.
206. A. Information that is available without restriction or authentication and that is available 
on an Internet- facing website should be considered public information. Internal, confiden-
tial, and restricted information all require additional controls and handling practices.
207. C. Identifying single points of failure is a common first step in network high availability 
designs. This allows network designers to plan for failures and how to avoid them. Con-
figuring a hot site, implementing clustering, and purchasing redundant hardware all occur 
much further into the design process when needs are identified and prioritized.
208. A. Having artifacts signed after they have made it through the build and validation process 
helps ensure that they haven’t been modified and that the artifact has had the organization’s 
checks done. Container image scanning helps to find issues like malware and dependency 
issues. Dependency checks can validate things like open source tool risks or issues. Static 
analysis requires manual review of code.Chapter 3: Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  281
209. C. A primary concern for organizations that encrypt their backups is whether the keys are 
available in a disaster. Ensuring that the keys are stored in a manner that ensures that they 
are recoverable if the backups are recoverable is critical. Modern backup encryption typ-
ically does not add a meaningful amount of time to backups, nor does it increase cost or 
space to such a significant degree that it is a primary concern.
210. C. Ransomware concerns are typically found with desktops, laptops, mobile devices, and 
servers instead of IoT devices. IoT devices often don’t have patches or aren’t patched, send 
data to third parties that may not be desired, and may not use secure communications.
211. C. In circumstances where a single vendor’s outages are a major concern, multi-cloud 
deployments may be appropriate. This is more common when the application is contain-
erized or otherwise easily portable. The more customized to the current cloud vendor 
the application or service is, the more difficult it is to move to other cloud vendors and 
the more costly the move will be. In addition, multi-cloud can drive additional costs for 
overhead services, making multi-cloud a choice organizations undertake cautiously. Deploy-
ing in multiple AZs or regions will not avoid an outage if the IaaS vendor has a cloud- wide 
issue, and contractual obligations won’t stop outages— they will typically just provide pen-
alties if there is an outage longer than the contract allows.
212. C. Meeting both resilience and performance requirements can be best addressed in this 
scenario by contracting with two separate network service providers. This allows for 
both resilience and the possibility of sending traffic through both connections for greater 
performance. Both a generator and a UPS can help with power resilience, but the focus of 
this question is network connectivity.
213. A. Segmentation of data separates data based on factors like use cases, sensitivity, roles, 
and types or classifications of information. Obfuscation attempts to conceal or hide 
information. Masking replaces information with other data like asterisks or X’s when dis-
played, allowing partial data to be displayed for business purposes. Tokenization replaces 
data with an alternate value, often based on a hashing algorithm that allows the alternate 
value to be used as an index or reference without the actual data visible.
214. C. Mandatory access control (MAC) is used in scenarios where users should not have the 
ability to grant access to files. Role- based access control and rule- based access control both 
provide more flexibility, and they are more commonly used than mandatory access con-
trol in cases where that is desired. Discretionary access control (DAC) allows users to grant 
access to other users and does not fit the requirements either.
215. B. A proxy server is likely to be used in an environment where the ability to filter searches 
may be required, such as a library with public workstations. A jump server is used to access 
more secure zones, a load balancer is typically used to allow multiple systems to provide a 
service, and a DLP system is used to prevent unauthorized data exfiltration.
216. A. In platform- as- a- service (PaaS) environments, customers and providers typically share 
responsibility for identity and directory infrastructure, applications, and network controls. 
Customers are responsible for data, devices, and accounts, and the provider is responsible 
for the underlying systems, including operating systems and physical infrastructure.282 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
217. C. A microservices design will allow for each component or service to be separate and 
lightweight, allowing them to be developed independently and thus easier to fix without 
complex dependencies. Containerization would allow for easy deployment of applications 
to different service environments, but the focus for containerization is on portability, not 
on the design requirements listed. Virtualization requires even more resources because 
operating systems are virtualized, but it suffers from the same lack of a direct means of 
addressing the needs explained in the question. SCADA stands for supervisory control and 
data acquisition and is used to manage complex industrial or controls’ environments, not 
service environments like the question describes.
218. D. The biggest advantage of a monitoring port over an inline network tap is that if the 
monitoring port fails, it will not impact the network traffic flow. If an inline device fails, 
it may impact the network traffic even if it is designed to avoid that scenario. Inline taps 
don’t have to rely on the performance of the switch, meaning that they are often higher 
performance; they can be passive, meaning that they cannot be attacked like a switch’s 
operating system can be; and since inline passive devices simply copy traffic, they are often 
easier to configure since you merely plug them in.
219. A. Embedded systems are often used for long periods of time, use relatively low- power 
CPUs and have limited memory and storage, and are typically not user configurable or 
manageable in meaningful ways. They typically don’t have the ability to install additional 
software as they are purpose-built to serve a specific need.
220. A. Containerization technologies bundle the needed libraries and other components for an 
application together in a lightweight package format that can easily be deployed to a pro-
vider’s containerization service. Snapshots are used to capture a virtual machine’s state and 
data at a given point in time. Embedded systems are computers that are built into a device 
or system. Segmentation is the concept of dividing a network or system into separate parts, 
often with security and other boundaries between them.
221. D. Data sovereignty is the right of nations to pass laws that control the use of data within 
their borders. This means that organizations must follow each country’s laws when they 
store, process, or otherwise handle data in the country they operate in. Data classification 
is a process of classifying data to set handling or other processes and practices around it. 
Treaties are not covered by the Security+ exam.
222. B. This is an example of air gapped design where there is no network connectivity. This 
prevents network- based attacks from being possible against the high- value certificate 
authority server. Port security is used to enable or disable network ports. Defense- in- depth 
is a design concept that relies on layers of defenses to ensure security. Zero trust requires 
continuous authentication and rights verification to provide ongoing security for a network 
or system architecture.
223. B. A large- scale denial- of- service attack that is using resources can be costly. Microsoft’s 
cloud will be able to scale to meet the demand, but Jayne’s organization may spend large 
amounts of money without benefiting any legitimate customers. Loss of data is unlikely 
because the application is being heavily used without any underlying issue for the applica-
tion’s data. Log files will still be created, but the size and scale of the logs may drive cost. 
There is nothing in the scenario that demonstrates a vulnerability, and resource exhaustion 
attacks do not require a vulnerability to be successful.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  283
224. B. EAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol) is used for 802.1X authentication before the 
port is enabled for other traffic. EAP does not permit vulnerability or port scanning, nor 
does it provide system security status validation.
225. B. The functions shown are typical of a proxy server. The proxy can be used to apply 
content controls and to conceal the IP addresses of internal users. A web application fire-
wall filters web traffic but is specifically targeting attacks and malicious behavior. A jump 
server is used between a low- trust and a higher- trust area to provide access, and this is not 
shown or described in the image or question. A load balancer is used to distribute traffic 
load between servers, and this is not shown in the image or reflected in the question.
226. B. While blocking single quotes won’t stop all SQL injection, it will stop many basic injec-
tion attacks. Preventing the use of SQL or AND and OR statements may break some applica-
tions, although secure web applications should be using stored queries.
