
1. B. File encryption meets all of the needs described. Full- disk encryption is easier to deploy and manage but does not protect individual files in motion and does not effectively support multiuser scenarios. Partition- level encryption has the same challenges, albeit at a partition rather than full- disk level. Record- level encryption is typically used in databases to protect individual records or entries.
2. D. Wildcard certificates are used to handle multiple subdomains with a single certificate.  A self- signed certificate will not be recognized by browsers and other services, creating confu-sion for customers. Root of trust certificates and CRL certificates are not types of certificates.
3. A. Gap analysis considers control objectives and the controls that are intended to meet the objectives.
4. D. In most production environments downtime is the primary concern when consid-ering an application restart. Many application architectures are designed to allow restarts of individual systems or services without creating an outage or downtime. Configuration changes should not be created by a restart, patches generally apply properly, and security controls should be in place throughout the process.
5. C. Organizations frequently use tools like git to build repositories that support their need for version control. Backout plans might note that you need to return to the prior version but will need to include how to do so. Stakeholder analysis and SOPs are not specifically sup-ported by or improved by using git.
6. B. Key stretching makes potentially weak keys more resistant to brute- forcing and often involves using a hash or block cipher repeatedly to make the original value harder to crack. Key rotation is the process of changing keys on a periodic basis to limit the impact of poten-tial exposure. Master keying and passphrase armoring are not commonly used concepts for information security, although master keys are used for physical locks.
7. C. Operational controls like log monitoring, change management processes, and vulner -ability management are all put in place to support managing and using technology in a secure manner.
8. D. Retaining the actual password is not a best practice, and thus encrypting password plain text is not a common technique to make passwords harder to crack. Since the applica-tion would need the cryptographic key to read the passwords, anybody who had access to that key could decrypt the passwords. Using a salt, a pepper, and a cryptographic hashing algorithm designed for passwords are all common best practices to prevent offline brute- force attacks.
9. C. Both Diffie–Hellman and RSA are key exchange algorithms designed to securely allow key exchange between users or systems that have not previously communicated.
10. B. Backout plans document what to do to return to a state prior to the change being made and are designed to be implemented if the change fails. They may involve undoing changes,restoring from backups, or taking other steps and they must contain an appropriate level of detail to ensure that the change can be undone. An impact analysis looks at the poten-tial impact of a change, regression testing ensures that old issues are not introduced in new updates, and maintenance windows are scheduled to allow for downtime or other mainte-nance activities with appropriate communications, staffing, and other needed elements.
11. D. The CIA triad is confidentiality, availability, and integrity. Theresa’s extended outage window will impact the availability of her applications and services.
12. C. Bollards are used to protect infrastructure and structures, and they are usually concrete or steel posts, planters, or similar structures that are intended to prevent a vehicle from impact-ing what they protect. Speed bumps won’t prevent an impact, although they might slow it. Access control vestibules are used to ensure only authorized personnel access a space, and chain- link fences are not typically sufficient for this type of control.
13. D. This is a preventive control that is intended to prevent sensitive data from being sent outside the organization. Managerial controls are procedural mechanisms, corrective controls remediate security issues that have already occurred, and detective controls identify security events that have already occurred.
14. A. Policies and procedures are examples of directive control that inform employees and others of what they should do to achieve security objectives. Corrective controls remediate already existing security issues, detective controls identify security events that have already happened, and preventive controls attempt to stop a security issue before it occurs.
15. D. This solution monitors for changes and is therefore a detective control. It does not prevent changes, and intruders and malicious actors are unlikely to know about it, making it a poor deterrent. Since it is not a policy or practice, it is not a directive control.
16. C. Zero trust designs implement continuous verification, which is an effective control used to limit the threat scope of compromised credentials. While multifactor authentication can be a useful control in this circumstance, a fully implemented zero- trust design will provide greater control than just MFA alone. Single sign- on and federation are both likely to increase threat scope in a compromised credential scenario.
17. A. Tokens replace data with a value that is linked specifically to the data, allowing it to be referenced and used without the field being exposed. Encryption is not used for this purpose, data masking hides elements of a data field like digits from a credit card number, and data randomization is not an obfuscation method.
18. A. The sender uses the receiver’s public key to encrypt the message, then the receiver uses their private key to decrypt the message. This ensures that the receiver is the only person who can decrypt a message sent using public key encryption.
19. C. If a certificate may have been breached, organizations should immediately revoke the cer -tificates and place them on a certificate revocation list (CRL). They will then need to replace the certificates with new certificates, but changing hostnames is not required as the certifi-cates themselves will be new. The other options are not typical practices.
20. A. Attackers are unlikely to be able to compromise a system or service while it is offline. They may, however, be able to take advantage of the restart or shutdown process if critical security processes are not online for some portion of the process. Unexpected downtime and dependencies between systems must also be considered when planning patching and system updates.
21. B. Version control is important to ensure that the current and correct version of an appli-cation or component is deployed. Dependency mapping can be important to ensure that changed versions don’t cause other issues, but it isn’t specifically needed to ensure that the current version is what you’re deploying. Impact analysis and allow/deny lists are not directly relevant to this requirement.
22. C. Version control systems track versions but don’t do testing themselves. Atomic opera-tions ensure that actions like commits don’t overwrite other commits in progress. File locking allows a developer to check out a file while it is being worked on, and tagging and labeling helps developers track files and versions.
23. B. Security guards are expensive but offer the most flexibility when organizations need intel-ligence and reasoning to be applied to security events and unexpected needs. Christina knows that guards can often identify issues that a fixed sensor or control cannot.
24. B. Full- disk encryption provides the most security in situations like this if the device is locked or off. Volume-  and partition- level encryption may leave some drive information or even entire volumes or partitions unencrypted, and file- level encryption is typically selective instead of covering every file on a drive.
25. C. In most organizations attempting to use an allow list for websites will take up a lot of time. Mahmoud knows that allow lists can be set up for websites, often at a central network security device–level like a firewall. Bypassing allow lists may be possible, but this can largely be prevented if desired. Allow lists are not overly permissive unless they are configured that way.
26. B. Administrators and system owners typically build backout plans. Stakeholders are involved in impact analysis as they help technical staff understand what the impact of changes will be on business areas. They engage in the change approval process, and they help to determine the maintenance window to ensure that impact on the business is minimized.
27. C. A TPM, or trusted platform module, is a hardware- based, cryptographic processor that is used to generate, store, and manage cryptographic keys. It is also used to help ensure platform integrity by allowing boot validation processes to occur in a secure manner. A CPU is the main processor for a system, NSA is the National Security Agency, and a CCA is a chosen ciphertext attack, a type of attack against cryptographic systems where the attacker can cause a cryptographic system to encrypt known text for analysis.
28. D. The Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) is used to validate certificate status, including checking to see if the certificate is on a certificate revocation list (CRL). TLS is Transport Layer Security, a protocol used to encrypt data in transit between systems that relies on cryptographic certificates, but it is not used to validate the status of certificates on a CRL. Despite SSL itself being outmoded, the term SSL is commonly used to refer to TLS— but here, neither TLS nor SSL is the right option. OCRS was made up for this question.
29. B. A root of trust–based secure boot process validates each signed component as it starts and ensures that the trusted components are all loaded as part of the boot process. Changes to the components are reported as exceptions, meaning that the boot process cannot be prop-erly verified or trusted. Secure initiation manager, boot hash, cryptographic boot manager were made up for this question.
30. B. Alice has deployed a compensating control since she cannot apply controls like patch-ing, configuration, or updates. Directive controls provide formal directions to staff, detective controls detect issues rather than preventing them directly, and procedural controls are not a type of control type used on the Security+ exam.
31. C. Apple devices use a specialized, separate coprocessor that uses encrypted memory and storage as well as dedicated cryptographic functions called a secure enclave. This is distinct from a TPM or HSM, and a screened subnet is a networking concept for a space that will be exposed to the less secure zones while needing to remain secure.
32. A. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) are an organization’s normal processes that it uses. SOPs are helpful to ensure that organizations have consistent practices that are in use on an ongoing basis. A change plan is specific to a change, and a backout plan is used to undo a change if problems arise. Fixed operating procedures is not a common term used in change management.
33. A. Transparent data encryption, field- level, and column- level encryption are all common types of database encryption. Sensitivity- based encryption is not and was made up for this question.
34. C. Gap analysis focuses on reviewing a security program against common best practices to identify where gaps between practices exist. Ujamaa will select an information security standard like NIST 800- 53, ISO 27001, or another relevant standard and will validate his organization’s controls implementation against it. This may include things like which services are not configured properly, whether patches are installed, and if legal requirements are being met, but any of those answers is not a complete answer in this context.
35. C. Video surveillance is a detective control and is useful for detecting security events after they have happened. Fencing, bollards, and lighting are typically considered preventive controls.
36. B. Honeypots are designed to appear to be vulnerable. They are heavily instrumented to capture attacker techniques and tools, allowing for analysis by defenders. Tarpits slow down attackers, beehives are not a term used in this context, and intrusion detection systems (IDSs) are designed to identify and alert about attacks but are not designed to appear to be vulnerable.
37. B. Calculating a cryptographic hash allows the log’s hash to be compared against copies to validate that they match. Digitally signing the hash ensures that it can be verified to be the original. Encrypting the log does not allow it to be verified against an original. Without a digital signature, a hash does not meet Renee’s requirement for nonrepudiation.
38. A. Infrared sensors are commonly used in open spaces. They are well suited to detecting indi-viduals and are less likely to be overly sensitive. They can cover broader fields than a pressure sensor, and ultrasonic sensors are not commonly deployed as facility- level security sensors.
39. C. Certificates are commonly used to identify both individuals and systems. Tokens, smart-cards, and usernames are primarily used by individuals.
40. D. Database and network connectivity, authentication system access, and network time avail-ability are all common dependencies that must be considered when making changes. Applica-tions and services may fail to start properly if these dependencies are not available when they attempt to start.
41. B. Policy engines decide whether to grant access to resources based on policies created by administrators and based on data provided by tools like endpoint detection and response tools, threat intelligence feeds, and security information and event management tools. It does not create or suggest administrative policies, and it does not directly enforce policies— that occurs at a policy enforcement point, typically through a zero- trust agent on the client and at the resource or service side.
42. D. Contracts tend to be updated as part of a contract renewal process, not as part of a change management process related to technical change.
43. B. Change windows rely on the documented change being able to be made. Patching and other technical changes may lead to unexpected interactions or dependency changes that are not accounted for in the original change window. Scaling a clustered system up or down does not change the systems and should not be restricted during a change management window.
44. D. Blockchain ledgers are immutable— they cannot be changed after they are recorded, and they are shared, which means that each participant in the blockchain has access to the entire ledger. Transactions are recorded only once and cannot be tampered with— in fact, if an error is made and recorded, a new record has to be created including the fix, and both records will be accessible to show the history of what occurred.
45. A. Damian has created a certificate signing request, which he can submit to a certificate authority (CA).
46. B. Preplanned times when maintenance is done and outages may occur is known as a main-tenance window. An unscheduled outage is just that— unscheduled and unplanned, often due to a failure or other issue. Allocated downtime and allowed outages are not common terms for this.
47. B. An estimate of the downtime expected as part of the change will help Megan to assess the impact of the change on her organization’s business operations. A backout plan is useful if something goes wrong and can help estimate impact if that happens, but it does not identify impact under normal circumstances. A list of stakeholders can help when communicating with stakeholders to notify them of what will occur, but without the estimate of downtime, Megan will not be able to ask them what the impact would be. Finally, a list of dependencies is helpful to ensure that the change does not have unexpected issues and can help withthe impact assessment to determine if other systems may be impacted, but the downtime expected remains the most important item.
48. C. Organizations often perform changes in a test environment to allow accurate time esti-mates and to determine if there are issues with the change like undocumented dependencies or problems with patches. Average downtime is a poor indicator of what a specific change may require, a fixed maintenance window does not ensure the change will take that amount of time, and vendors rarely have a full understanding of the environment an organization is operating in.
49. C. Symmetric encryption uses the same key for all participants in an exchange. Asymmetric encryption uses public and private keys where public keys are shared and private keys are retained. Shared hashing and universal encryption are not terms commonly used to describe encryption.
50. D. Asymmetric encryption makes key exchange possible because public keys are just that: public. They can be shared without causing a loss of cryptographic security or repudiation. They do not help with collision resistance, key length, or evil twins (which are malicious wireless access points).
51. A. A TPM is used to validate secure boot processes. A hardware security module (HSM) is used for key generation, storage, and management as well as for encrypting and decrypting data and creating and validating digital signatures.
52. A. Steganography is the art of hiding additional data in images. Michelle can use steganogra-phy detection tools to attempt to find the data, but attackers may use custom tools that could avoid detection as well. The other options were made up for this question.
53. C. SAML is the Security Assertion Markup Language, used to exchange authentication and authorization data between identity providers and service providers. TLS, IPSec, and SSH are all common transport encryption protocols.
54. B. Record- level encryption is commonly associated with databases, where it is used to encrypt each record with a unique encryption key, allowing it to be more secure than database- level encryption.
55. C. Yasmine’s company has implemented a key escrow process where encryption keys are retained by the organization in case the files on the drive need to be accessed by someone with proper authority. A hardware security module (HSM) is a hardware device used to cre-ate and store encryption keys, among other encryption- related functions. Perfect forward secrecy (PFS) is a term used in encryption systems that change keys frequently to ensure that even if a key is hacked, the attacker’s access to data will exist in a limited window. Private keys are part of asymmetric encryption schemes and do not reflect the full solution Yasmine’s organization is using.
56. B. Certificates are commonly used for system authentication in AAA systems. While asym-metric and symmetric are forms of encryption, they are not authentication schemes, and PIN- based authentication is not commonly used for system authentication.
57. C. Honeyfiles are files that are intentionally made to look attractive while being configured for detection by data loss prevention and intrusion prevention/detection systems. A honeypot is an intentionally vulnerable system that is used to monitor attacker behavior and techniques for analysis. Honeynets are networks that are configured to be intentionally vulnerable and that operate much like honeypots at a network level. Honeytokens are credentials that are not actually used but that are monitored for use in case an attacker is able to capture them.
58. B. Lighting is a deterrent control type and would typically be categorized as a physical control.
59. C. Any control that requires constant human presence like security guards is likely to have a higher ongoing cost than controls that can be put in place and operate without human inter -vention or presence.
60. C. SHA- 256 is the current, secure hashing standard. While it is unlikely that a malicious actor would exploit known flaws in MD5 and SHA- 1, in most normal operations SHA- 256 remains the preferred option when it is available. The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is used for encryption, not hashing.
61. B. Policies are examples of directive controls. This could also be considered a corrective con-trol, but that is not one of the options listed. Detective controls identify security events that have already occurred, and this does not detect the compromised account— it directs what must happen afterward. A compensating control mitigates risks due to exceptions in the security policy like a violation of policy due to an inability to implement a specific technical control like patching. A preventive control attempts to stop a security issue before it occurs. Here, the issue has already occurred. The policy of directive control tells staff what do to, and the action of locking the account is a corrective control.
62. C. RADIUS is commonly used for AAA for network devices. OpenID and SAML are more commonly associated with federated services, and TANGENT is not an AAA protocol or server.
63. C. Physical security sensors are not typically part of a zero- trust policy engine feed. Zero- trust environments primarily focus on network and systems access rather than physical secu-rity and access.
64. A. Valerie is interacting with a policy enforcement point, the agent and resource- side ele-ments that validate trust by requiring authentication and authorization before allowing access to a resource. The policy enforcement point will validate her access through the policy engine, which will be configured by the policy administrator. Trust managers are not a typical component of the zero- trust model.
65. B. Identity, devices, networks, applications and workloads, and data are all assessed as part of the NIST Zero Trust Maturity Model. The model does not assess an organization’s business model or practices.
66. A. OpenID is an open standard for decentralized authentication that is used by many cloud service providers. Kerberos, LDAP, and TACACS+ are all most commonly associated with  on- site usage.
67. A. Corrective controls attempt to remediate security issues that have already occurred. Patching the flaw that allowed an attack to succeed is an example of a corrective control. Deploying full- disk encryption or an EDR tool are both examples of preventive controls, and logging and log monitoring are examples of detective controls. It is important to note that in many cases, controls could be identified as multiple potential control types. In cases where controls might fit multiple control types, you should look for the control that is most obvi-ously the correct control type.
68. C. Symmetric encryption does not support nonrepudiation because both parties have the same key. Both asymmetric and symmetric encryption can provide confidentiality, integrity, and authentication.
69. C. A KMS, or key management system, is a solution that allows you to safely store and manage secrets like keys and certificates. Centralizing a KMS allows organizations to effec-tively manage their secrets, including tracking their life cycle and rotation. A TPM is used for hardware security on physical systems, a CA is a certificate authority used to create and sign certificates, and a CSR is a certificate signing request.
70. B. Data masking conceals elements of a data field or entry, preventing all of it from being seen but leaving it accessible through the database when masking is not used. Tokenization replaces values with a reference value— often a hash that can be used to refer to the value without using the actual entry. Hashing is a one- way function that produces an input of arbi-trary length. Field encryption is not a common term.
71. A. In a decentralized blockchain, no individual or group controls the blockchain. Block-chains can store many types of data, including but not limited to transactions. Blockchain transactions are permanent once written, and a new transaction or update would need to be recorded rather than revising an existing transaction. Blockchain transactions are stored on the blockchain maintained by participants, not on central servers chosen by election.
72. B. Subordinate CAs avoid the cost of maintaining a root CA while providing control over certificates that are issued and allowing specialized support for different types of certificates like SSL and S/MIME. Subordinate CAs can issue certificates for any allowed domain or sub-domain, are not required to ensure auditability, and can sign certificates themselves.
73. B. Pressure sensors can be deployed to detect footsteps in a secured area. Infrared and microwave sensors are more commonly used to detect motion, and ultrasonic sensors are rarely used for security purposes.
74. D. Firewalls are a technical control, not a managerial control that focuses on the mechanics of the risk management process.
75. C. Third- party certificates allow customers to have full control over the certificate, including the private key and certificate signing request. By bringing your own certificate, encrypted traffic cannot be decrypted by the cloud provider. Using provider- provided or - created certif-icates leads to a potential risk if the provider is malicious or compromised and private keys managed by the provider are compromised. Bringing your own certificate does not neces-sarily reduce costs. Providers typically allow certificate signing requests for customer domains and subdomains as needed and supported by the service.226 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions76. C. Disk encryption is commonly used to ensure confidentiality of data. UPS, load balancers, and redundant Internet connectivity all support availability.
77. B. Honeynets are collections of decoy systems and devices that are instrumented and mon-itored, providing organizations and individuals with information about how threat actors attack targeted systems. Honeyfarm and honeycluster are not industry terms, and darknets are segments of unused network space that should not receive traffic. Darknets are monitored to help identify scanning and other attacks since traffic should not flow to them.
78. A. Fencing is considered a deterrent because it will discourage potential intruders from accessing facilities. Generators are used to ensure availability and are a preventive control. Access badges are a technical and preventive control in most cases. A camera system is a detective, technical control.
79. C. The root certificate, or top certificate for a certificate chain, is the root of trust of the chain, and it must be kept secure so the entire certificate and CA hierarchy can be trusted. Hardened hardware devices may be used to store it, but they are not the actual root itself.  A TPM is used to store system- specific security data, and wildcard certificates cover more than one subdomain for an organization.
80. B. By definition, open public ledgers are open and public— anyone can join at any time. No vote is required, and creators do not control the ledger once it is made public.
81. A. Some software may attempt to validate the certificates in use and could fail. This may also lead to unexpected differences between production certificates and test certificates, which is undesirable in a test environment intended to mirror production. Both internal users and external users can still successfully use self- signed certificates for SSL, but they will receive warnings in modern browsers. Browsers can typically be told to bypass warnings, or self- signed certificates can be added to system certificate chains as needed, although this requires additional work from system administration teams and may not be desirable.
82. C. The most effective way to ensure that all dependencies have been satisfied is to perform the change in a matching test environment to ensure that all issues have been identified and resolved. Updating policies and procedures as well as diagrams is typically done after major changes that result in a need for updates. Legacy applications that may create dependencies are not the only potential source of dependency issues.
83. B. Kerberos uses authentication tickets and ticket- granting tickets to grant session keys for services that clients present to services to access them. TACACS+, MS- CHAP, and EAP do not use this ticket- based approach.
84. A. AES- 256 is the only currently recommended encryption solution on the list. SHA- 1 is a hashing algorithm. DES and Blowfish both have vulnerabilities and have been replaced in modern usage.
85. D. Lighting, fences, bollards, and access control vestibules are all examples of physical controls.
86. B. Jack should digitally sign the file and provide his public key to the other organization. This will allow them to validate his signature, as well as the integrity of the signed file.Encrypting the file does not ensure its integrity but does protect its confidentiality. Sending a hash does not ensure that the email was not modified, and emailing file size and name does not ensure the file was not changed.
87. D. Certificates expire, but expiration does not place them on a CRL. That avoids extremely long CRLs in most cases, and the expired certificate contains sufficient information to know that the certificate is expired without being on a CRL. Reasons to add a certificate to a CLR include the CA being compromised, the certificate’s private key being compromised, a mis- issued certificate, certificate detail changes that require a reissued certificate, or certificates that were fraudulently signed, typically by a subordinate CA that was exploited or had poor practices.
88. D. SHA- 256 is the only hashing algorithm listed that is considered current and secure as of the publication of this book. MD5 and SHA- 1 both have known security issues, and AES- 256 is an encryption algorithm.
89. C. To verify whether a message was signed by a sender, the recipient needs the sender’s public key.
90. B. Creating a complete backout plan and implementing it if something goes wrong that cannot be remediated during a change window is the accepted best practice in this scenario. That may involve restoring from backups or uninstalling the patch, but neither of these options is necessarily the correct answer in all circumstances. Similarly, declaring an out-age may be necessary, but following the backout plan and communicating effectively is the best option.
91. A. This is a corrective control because it remediates a security issue after the event has occurred. A compensating control would attempt to mitigate a risk associated with excep-tions made to a security policy. Deterrent controls attempt to prevent an attacker from violating security policies, and detective controls identify security events that have already happened.
92. D. A zero- trust system should validate its level of confidence in a request that it receives once the basic criteria have been met. This may involve checking the access against known patterns of access by the user, validating current threat feed information, or checking other details that will help ensure the security and authenticity of the request.
93. A. While many honeyfiles use canary tokens, simply monitoring for known files exiting systems that should not be accessed under normal circumstances is also a valid means to construct a honeypot and honeyfile- based detection system. Charles can use the file and the isolated system to detect attackers who attempt to exfiltrate the file. The other answers were made up for this question.
94. B. Salting uses a unique, randomly generated string that is added to each password before it is hashed. That means that even matching passwords will not have the same hash. This pre-vents rainbow tables from being effectively used against password hashes due to the added computational load it creates for precomputing hashes.
95. B. Secure enclaves are used by Apple devices to securely store security information like cryptographic keys.
96. C. Implementing key stretching techniques can help short— and thus weak— passwords resist brute- force hash cracking techniques. They won’t help against brute- force password guessing attacks, so Isaac will need to implement other controls against that type of attack. Pass- the- hash attacks reuse hashes, and thus aren’t a technique used to prevent brute- force attacks against hashed passwords. Collision resistance is a requirement for an effective hashing algorithm and should be part of any password hash storage implementation. Encrypting passwords is not a recommended practice because it leaves passwords in the hands of the organization rather than hashes and requires the organization to decrypt pass-words to check them when they are used, creating frequent opportunities for exposure.
97. B. RFID badges are the most commonly implemented wireless identification badges. Wi- Fi and Bluetooth both require additional power for devices and thus are not a good fit for a badge, and NFC- enabled badges have not come into common use at this time, although they are increasingly available for mobile device–enabled badges.
98. B. A compensating control helps to mitigate a risk due to an exception to a security policy. Here, the devices cannot be patched or fixed but are important to the operations of the organization. Moving them to a protected network will help compensate for the lack of patching. Since no security issues have occurred, this is not a corrective control. Confidenti-ality and coordinated controls are not control types for the Security+ exam.
99. B. Adaptive authentication looks at the context of a login, including where they’re logging in from— both geographically, and from a network trust perspective, what device they’re logging in from, and if the device is configured correctly. In modern, multidevice usage, whether the user has logged in recently from another device isn’t as likely to be considered, but if the devices were in different countries it would likely raise a flag!
100. A. One of the basic tenets of zero- trust architecture is that all communication is secured, regardless of the security zone or trust zone that it occurs in. Additional security should not be required, nor should communications receive less security in higher trust zones. All zero- trust networks are considered potential risk areas— thus the zero in zero trust!
101. C. Microwave sensors work in temperature ranges that infrared sensors do not, and they can penetrate walls and some small spaces allowing more complete coverage. Microwave sensors cannot detect heat signatures, are not cheaper than infrared sensors, and can inter -fere with some types of sensitive equipment.
102. C. Access control vestibules are intended to make it obvious that someone is following you through secured doors and may only be large enough for a single person to come through at once. Larger vestibules rely on staff noticing that the person following them through is not providing credentials and ensuring that doors close between access attempts.
103. B. Data masking reveals only part of a field and is often used with details like credit card numbers or Social Security numbers where only the last four digits will be revealed for vali-dation purposes.
104. B. While version control has many useful impacts on security, tracking workload is not a security- related issue for version control.
105. D. While auditors may request application version information during audits, they are not typically notified during normal application updates and patching cycles. Application administrators, service owners, and system administrators are all commonly notified about functional validation test results so that they can take further action or know that the ser -vice update is complete.
106. B. Each individual has their own keypair in asymmetric encryption systems; thus, for four individuals to communicate securely using asymmetric encryption four keypairs are needed.
107. D. A dedicated, hardware- based, cloud- hosted hardware security module (HSM) is an appropriate solution for Michelle’s needs. Cloud providers often provide shared HSMs as a service, which can increase perceived risk due to the shared underlying hardware. Dedicated hardware is typically available at a higher cost. Trusted platform modules (TPMs) are used to provide secure boot and related services, not to store secrets for an organization.
108. B. To sign a file, Murali needs to use his own private key. The recipient can then use their public key to validate the signature.
109. C. OCSP requests must include the certificate’s serial number to allow the OCSP responder to check the CA database for the certificate and its status. It does not require the domain name or requestor’s name. Open public ledgers are part of blockchains, not OCSP.
110. C. Wildcard certificates have a * in them, denoting that they can be used for any subdo-main. For example, in this question, the wildcard would match any *.example.com subdo-main like test.example.com and sales.example.com. Self- signed certificates will not link to a root or intermediate CA, and thus cannot be verified with CAs.
111. A. Policies and procedures are examples of directive controls. Deterrent controls attempt to dissuade attackers from taking action. Preventive controls attempt to stop security issues from occurring. Proactive controls are not a control category used on the Security+ exam.
112. A. Allow lists can be difficult to manage over time, particularly as manufacturers and  vendors add additional download and update sites and subdomains. This creates additional work for administrators and can cause errors or issues with updates and patching  if not carefully monitored. Allow lists do prevent sites from being visited if they are not on the list, they can be configured with wildcards to allow entire domains or subdomains if desired, and they only allow sites that are added, meaning any problems with unwanted sites are the responsibility of the allow list administrator.
113. A. EAP is commonly used for authentication to wireless networks. MS- CHAP is used with PPTP- based VPNs, Kerberos is used for organizationwide authentication, and LDAP is used as part of authentication in Microsoft Active Directory domains, among other uses.
114. A. Validation testing should follow application restarts to ensure the application is working as expected after the restart. Documentation and updating version information can be done after the validation because if validation fails the change may need to be reversed. Vulner -ability scanning should have been done prior to implementation in a test environment if needed, and then should be done as part of ongoing security operations.
115. A. Microwave sensors are commonly used to detect motion and have advantages over infrared sensors because they can work in a greater temperature range as well as traveling through some obstacles that would not allow infrared to penetrate them. They do not capture audio and are therefore not used for glass- break sensors, they do not capture thermal data like infrared sensors, and they are not pressure sensors.
116. C. In order for a drive to be used, it must be accessible to the operating system, meaning that when the system is logged in and in use data can be accessed. When full- disk encryp-tion systems are booting and not logged in or when they are being shut down, they are typi-cally not in a greater risk state, and they are most secure when shut down.
117. A. Full- disk encryption primarily supports confidentiality by preventing unwanted access to the drive if it is stolen or otherwise exposed. The three objectives are confidentiality, integrity, and availability, which means authenticity is not a possible answer. Encryption does not increase availability, and integrity ensures that data has not been changed inad-vertently or maliciously. Thus, encryption can help, but it is not as strong of an answer as confidentiality.
118. B. A gap analysis is used to determine whether controls meet control objectives for a ser -vice, an organization, or a system. Penetration tests simulate an attacker trying to gain access or breach systems and other controls. Boolean analysis is not a security term, and risk analysis is done as part of risk assessment.
119. C. Access control lists are best described as technical controls. Managerial controls are procedural mechanisms; physical controls are controls that impact the physical world, like locks or fences; and operational controls are processes used to manage technology in a secure manner, like the change management process Frank will likely follow to make changes to the access control list.
120. B. Video surveillance system storage can drive additional costs based on decisions like how long video is retained, sensitivity levels, video resolution, and how heavily trafficked camera covered areas are. Licensing may grow if additional cameras are added, but there is no information in the question indicating changes in the size of the implementation. Since this is an unmonitored system, no guards are involved, and camera maintenance is not a typical issue for a newly deployed system.
121. D. Restoring from backups helps to remediate a security issue, making this a corrective control. Preventive controls for Henry’s situation might include endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools, directive controls would include policies and procedures for ransom-ware events, and compensating controls would be used if exceptions to the security policies needed to be made.
122. B. Tokenization commonly uses randomly generated values that are assigned to replace existing known values. The token is stored in a lookup table, allowing the token to be checked against the table if needed. Hashing relies on a hash function, which is not men-tioned here; randomization is not a data obfuscation technique; and masking replaces some or all of a sensitive field with a replacement character to ensure the data is unreadable when displayed.
123. C. Key exchange algorithms focus on how to securely exchange keys so that others cannot obtain a copy of the key. Asymmetric encryption is used instead of symmetric encryptionto resolve the issue of large numbers of symmetric keys; keys are either public or private in asymmetric systems and determining if they are public is not considered a problem; and keys are not returned to their owner, as only public keys should be exchanged.
124. D. Legal counsel is not typically part of change management processes. Stakeholders, ser -vice owners, and system administrators are commonly involved in impact analysis sessions.
125. D. Certificate requests include the common name (CN); organization (O); organization unit in the organization (OU); city or locality (L); the state, county, or region (S); country (C); and organizational contact email address.
126. C. Tony is salting his password, which involves adding a string of characters to the pass-word before it is hashed. This creates a unique hash, even if the password itself is an easily guessed or common password.
127. A. While cryptocurrency is a common use of blockchain technology, it isn’t the only use. Values of blocks are not determined as part of transactions— in fact, even in cryptocur -rency uses, values are determined by prices set on exchanges as sellers and buyers exchange cryptocurrencies.
128. B. TLS, or Transport Layer Security, is a cryptographic protocol used to secure network traffic in transit. S/MIME, or Secure MIME, is used for digital signatures and encryption for email. MPLS is multiprotocol label switching, a network routing technique. SSH is Secure Shell and is used for encrypted command- line access as well as to tunnel other pro-tocols in some cases.
129. C. Legacy applications are often unsupported, don’t receive new patches or updates, and have a shrinking or nonexistent base of consultants and experts. Licensing for legal applica-tions is often not available; this making ongoing licensing costs a less frequent concern.
130. A. Change management processes typically focus on documenting dependencies and ensuring they are met. That may involve ensuring that the appropriate version is installed or that applications are restarted in a specific order, or that a service is available that is needed for a system to successfully function. Removing dependencies is unlikely, patching may or may not be required, and updating diagrams is less important than ensuring the dependencies are understood and met.
131. A. Record- level encryption relies on a unique key for each record, keeping records private to a user or account in typical usage.
132. A. Justin’s laptop is a subject. Subjects like users, applications, or devices are not trusted by default. Justin’s system is also likely a policy enforcement point, not a policy applica-tion point, and will run a zero- trust client application that will interface with the zero- trust framework to determine if the system is secure as part of authentication and authorization processes. Policy engines evaluate policies and use threat information and other data to determine if access should be given in the context of the time, place, and system the request is made from. Service providers are concepts used in federation, rather than in zero- trust environments.
133. C. Policy- driven access control focuses on using rules to determine who can access a ser -vice based on security state and other information. Adaptive authorization adjusts autho-rization levels based on factors like device status, user behavior, and location. Threat scope reduction is a key concept in zero trust that focuses on ensuring that threats have less of a target to attack if they enter the secure environment. Secured zones are no longer a critical concept for zero trust, as continuous verification means all interactions are secured and validated.
134. B. OCSP, or the Online Certificate Status Protocol, provides a way to check on the status of a certificate, including whether it has been revoked.
135. D. Key rotation should occur when a user leaves, even if the key is escrowed. Regulatory compliance as well as providing access for administrative or emergency access to organiza-tional data are common reasons to implement key escrow.
136. C. Once a private key has been exposed, it should not be considered secure, even in an organization of trusted users. Since Yariv exposed his private key via email, he cannot ensure that it is not available in another user’s email archives, and he must immediately cre-ate a new keypair and advise individuals that he works with of his new public key.
137. B. Since blockchains are not changed after transactions are recorded, a new transaction must be recorded and both transactions remain in the record as part of the ledger.
138. B. Patches and updates are less likely to result in a need to update policies and procedures. New applications, lessons learned exercises, and regulatory changes are all likely to result in changes to policies and procedures.
139. C. Access badges are an example of something you have, and PINs are an example of something you know. Combining the two is a common requirement to help prevent a lost badge from providing access to a secure facility. A security desk with a guard is more costly but can be more effective if the guards are well trained and diligent, but the needs of Hrant’s organization are met properly by the access badge and PIN.
140. C. Microwave sensors are not commonly used to detect intruders. Infrared and ultrasonic sensors are commonly used, and pressure sensors may be used in special circumstances.
141. C. Secure cryptographic hash systems should not generate the same output for two differ -ent inputs. They should, however, be one- way functions and generate fixed length output, and they are commonly used to verify the integrity of files.
142. C. Access control vestibules are designed to stop tailgating attacks, which occur when someone follows an authorized user into a space. Access badges do not prevent this, as tail-gating relies on passing through a door someone with access has opened. Video surveillance may allow you to see the attack but won’t stop it, and bollards are used to prevent vehicles from passing through a space.
143. B. Requiring a PIN is the best option unless guards are in place to validate that the person using the badge matches the badge. Even then a PIN may be better than a picture if the badge does not have other elements like holographic seals that will prevent it from being modified. Barcode and RFID badges can still be cloned and are not as effective as requiring a knowledge- based identifier as well as a possession- based identifier.to be from the signer, proving that it is legitimate. Key stretching describes techniques used to make it harder to crack weak keys. Authentication is the process of validating that a person is who they say they are but is not specific to digital signatures. Ledger- based valida-tion was made up for this question.
144. B. A feature of digital signatures is nonrepudiation. A signed file or message can be proven to be from the signer, proving that it is legitimate. Key stretching describes techniques used to make it harder to crack weak keys. Authentication is the process of validating thata person is who they say they are but is not specific to digital signatures. Ledger- based valida-tion was made up for this question.
145. B. Public keys can simply be sent to another user if so desired. It is common to provide public keys via key servers or even in email signatures, although addition verification that the key belongs to an individual may be desirable, if not required.
146. C. Generating a unique salt for each hashed entry is the most secure option among those listed. Storing a fixed salt in a database or in code reduces the complexity of the salted information, making it possible for an attacker to acquire the single salt and then attack the stored hashes. Generating a unique salt every time a value is used is impractical due to the rate of change.
147. B. Risk assessments are an example of a managerial control, which includes procedural mechanisms related to the risk management process. Technical controls enforce confidenti-ality, integrity, and availability using technical means. Physical controls like locks and fences impact the physical world. Operational controls include processes put in place to manage technology in a secure manner.
148. B. Removing malicious software is an example of a corrective control, which seeks to remediate security issues that have already occurred. Preventive controls are intended to stop security issues from occurring. Compensating controls are designed to mitigate risks associated with exemptions to the security policy, like moving systems to a secure network segment because they cannot be patched. Deterrent controls attempt to prevent a malicious actor from violating security policies.
149. B. Root certificates are at the root of trust in a CA hierarchy and allow signing keys to be created and used to sign certificates. They are not used to authorize new CA users or to remove certificates from a CRL. Key stretching is used to make weak keys stronger, not as part of cryptographic certificates.
150. D. Authentication requires that users provide (claim) an identity and then provide one or more authentication factors like a password, biometric factor, or multifactor code. Autho-rization relies on matching users and roles to allow users to perform tasks once they are authenticated. Biometric enrollments and identity proofing may be desirable but are not necessarily required for any given authentication system.
