1. C. This description does not include any risk to availability since there is no information 
about systems or services being down or offline. This scenario would likely result in reputa-
tional, financial, and data loss impacts for Scott’s company.
2. D. KRIs, or key risk indicators, need to be actionable so that the organization can use them 
to control or manage risk, they need to be measurable so that they can be assessed, and they 
must be relevant to the risks that they measure. They don’t necessarily have to be inexpen-
sive, as organizations may make choices about costs based on their risks and business models.
3. A. A recovery time objective (RTO) is set by organizations to describe how long restoring 
systems or services to normal function after a disruption can take. Mean time to repair 
(MTTR) is the average time it takes to repair a system or device. A recovery point objective 
(RPO) describes how much data can be lost in the event of an outage or issue, and the mean 
time between failures (MTBF) is a measure of the reliability of a system. It is the expected 
amount of time that will elapse between system failures.
4. B. Acceptable use policies (AUPs) describe how and what users can use organizational 
resources, systems, and services for. Business continuity policies describe how an organization 
approaches business continuity, and incident response policies focus on how organizations 
respond to incidents. A standard acts as the rules to achieve an intent, while policies describe 
the organization’s intent. This policy describes intent, not specific implementations.
5. D. Angie has conducted passive reconnaissance. She did not perform a scan or otherwise take 
direct active action to gather her information. Instead, she used the existing Shodan engine 
to gather information. While Shodan is a commercial product and does gather information 
using scans, databases like Shodan are considered passive reconnaissance, and the Security+ 
exam objectives recognize two types of reconnaissance: active and passive.
6. C. Data processors do just that— they process the data on behalf of a data controller, who 
determines how data is processed and what purposes it is used for. They do not own the 
data, and they are typically contracted to process the data rather than contracting with third 
parties themselves.
7. D. Ginger is a data subject, a person who can be identified by her personally identifiable 
information (PII). Data owners are responsible for protection, usage, and quality  310 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
of datasets. Data controllers determine how data will be used, and processors do the actual 
data processing.
8. C. Qualitative risk assessment uses knowledge and expertise to assess risk rather than assign-
ing numeric values and calculations like a quantitative assessment process would. Ad hoc risk 
assessment is done when risks need to be assessed for a specific, immediate need unlike the 
planned, regular risk assessments described. Continuous risk assessment is ongoing, whereas 
this is conducted regularly.
9. A. Qualitative risk assessments measure likelihood on a descriptive scale like high, medium, 
or low. Quantitative assessments measure likelihood on a numeric scale using known event 
occurrence rates where possible.
10. A. Boards often include external members who may have industry or other experience and 
expertise that will benefit the organization, and they are sometimes, but not always, paid 
as part of their work on the board. Committees are frequently composed of internal staff; 
government- based governance occurs through laws or as part of public service. Market- based 
is not a type of governance outlined by the Security+ exam objectives.
11. A. Risk transfer options move the costs of risks to another organization such as through 
insurance. Acceptance involves management acknowledging that the risk and its impacts may 
occur, and that the organization will move forward despite that chance. Avoidance seeks to 
prevent the risk from occurring. Mitigation works to limit the impact of a risk.
12. C. Boards provide strategic oversight and direction for organizations. Boards may form sub-
committees to accomplish specific tasks or to provide oversight over specific areas. Regula-
tors oversee an industry based on law. Activist investor’s groups are not covered by the exam, 
but typically they own stock in an organization and seek to direct the organization through 
their activism and stock ownership.
13. C. This governance approach is a decentralized approach with each unit or area providing 
their own governance. While flexible, this can be problematic because of a lack of consistency 
and overhead due to unique circumstances and requirements. Centralized designs do not 
delegate authority and instead place authority in a central place, organization, or individual. 
There is no mention of a board or committee.
14. B. A one- time risk assessment that addresses the acquisition will best meet Sharon’s needs. 
Ad hoc assessments are less formal, and they are often used to quickly assess a system or 
other potential risk. There is no requirement listed for third- party assessment, and they can 
be both expensive and time-consuming. Continuous risk assessment efforts are typically built 
into ongoing processes and are not suited to this type of one- time review.
15. C. Data processors process data on behalf of controllers. Data subjects are the individuals or 
organizations that data describes. Data owners create and are responsible for data, and data 
administrator is not a broadly or consistently used term in this context.
16. D. Right- to- audit clauses provide customers with the right to have an audit of their vendor 
like an SOC 2, Type 1 assessment performed. SOC 2, Type 1 reports are not penetration test-
ing reports, vulnerability scan reports, or risk assessment reports.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  311
17. A. Data owners are responsible for data, including classifying it, protecting it, overseeing the 
use of it, and ensuring the quality of the overall data. They are not, however, responsible for 
directly processing the data.
18. B. Risk exceptions are granted when a risk is accepted by the organization, despite not fol-
lowing typical organizational policies or processes. This is not a transfer or mitigation, and 
simply documenting the risk does not cause it to be accepted.
19. C. Data owners classify, protect, oversee the use of, and ensure the quality of data. Control-
lers are responsible for the procedures and purposes of data use, often described as the why 
and how. Custodians are the staff and teams who handle data, and processors work with 
data on behalf of a controller.
20. C. There are four commonly used business impact analysis (BIA) measures that are part of 
the Security+ exam objectives: recovery time objectives (RTOs), recovery point objectives 
(RPOs), mean time to repair (MTTR), and mean time between failures (MTBF). ARO, or 
annual rate of occurrence, is associated with risk assessment, not BIA.
21. B. Data processors process data for data controllers. In this scenario, Julie or a member 
of her staff is the data controller and the third- party organization is a processor. They 
do not own the data, and they are not custodians who are responsible for the data on an 
ongoing basis.
22. D. Service level agreements (SLAs) set forth the expected service level as well as penalties 
for nonperformance. A master services agreement (MSA) is a broad agreement that addi-
tional work may be performed under. An NDA, or nondisclosure agreement, sets forth 
what information may and may not be shared or disclosed. The mean time between failures 
(MTBF) is a measure of the reliability of a system. It is the expected amount of time that will 
elapse between system failures.
23. D. Data controllers determine the purpose and methods of data processing. They may be 
individuals, groups, or organizations. This is defined by the General Data Protection Regula-
tion (GDPR). That may involve how data flows, and the formats or other details of data, but 
the best— and legally defined— role of a controller is the one set by the GDPR.
24. B. Augie is a data custodian. In this role he is responsible for data’s use in the business, 
including storing and properly handling data. Data owners are responsible and accountable 
for data as well as ensuring that custodians and others are handling the data appropriately. 
Data processors do actual data processing, and may be an individual, organization, or group. 
Data subjects are the people who the data describes or is about.
25. C. Sanctions are typically applied to countries rather than companies or individuals. Fines 
and loss of license are typically aimed at companies and individuals, and mandatory report-
ing is not a penalty included in the Security+ exam.
26. A. Terms used for risk appetite in the Security+ exam objectives include conservative, 
neutral, and expansionary. Intentional is not a term used for risk appetite.312 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
27. B. Data stewards are responsible for the data in their charge. That means they carry out data 
usage and security policies and ensure that data is handled appropriately. Creating data is 
typically done by data owners, who also explain and set data security policies. Multiple roles 
oversee data throughout its life cycle, not just a data steward.
28. A. Data controllers determine what data is used and how it is processed. Supervisory author -
ities are public authorities in the European Union (EU) that monitor for compliance with the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Data protection officers are required by the 
GDPR and oversee data protection strategies and their implementation. Data processors do 
just that— they process the data on behalf of a data controller who determines how data is 
processed and what purposes it is used for. They do not own the data, and are typically con-
tracted to process the data rather than contracting with third parties themselves.
29. C. Avoidance seeks to prevent the risk from occurring. In this case, the WAF is a method of 
preventing the attack, thus avoiding the risk. Risk transfer options move the costs of risks to 
another organization such as through insurance. Acceptance involves management acknowl-
edging that the risk and its impacts may occur and that the organization will move forward 
despite that chance. Mitigation works to limit the impact of a risk.
30. B. HTTPS using TLS is a form of encryption for data in motion. Encryption standards often 
require specific ways to use encryption, encryption algorithms, settings or configurations for 
encryption, or times and places where encryption must be used. Access control standards 
focus on how access is controlled, by whom, and who is impacted. Password standards define 
settings and requirements related to passwords, and physical security standards address 
physical security requirements.
31. A. Cloud vendors rarely agree to right- to- audit clauses, instead choosing to provide their 
own third- party audit results. This reduces the chances of an audit or assessment causing 
issues with their other customers. Third- party audit costs covered by right- to- audit clauses 
are often borne by the customers, not the vendor. Not passing an audit is unlikely for major 
vendors, regulatory requirements are more likely to require audits, and regulations rarely 
limit auditability.
32. A. Access control standards often define how and when users can access or use systems and 
services. Defining user access to only be allowed during working hours is an example of an 
access control standard. Encryption standards often require specific ways to use encryption, 
encryption algorithms, settings or configurations for encryption, or times and places where 
encryption must be used. Password standards define settings and requirements related to 
passwords, and physical security standards address physical security requirements.
33. C. The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is the most commonly accepted and used 
encryption standard as of this writing. Selecting a longer key length like 256 over a 128- bit 
option provides greater resistance to brute- force attacks. SHA- 1 and SHA- 2 are hashing algo-
rithms, not encryption algorithms.
34. D. Agile, along with continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines, describes 
a software development life cycle. Business continuity, disaster recovery, and incident 
response policies may mention the Agile process and impacts on the CI/CD pipeline, but it is 
not the primary focus of those types of policies.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  313
35. C. Change management practices often include options for preapproved changes, emergency 
changes, and standard changes. Changes required by legislation or other external factors are 
not typically built into most change management processes.
36. B. A business impact analysis (BIA) is a formal process used to identify mission- critical 
functions and to ensure that critical systems that support those functions are identified and 
assessed. Risk assessment seeks to identify risks and their probability and impact, and a pen-
etration test attempts to emulate how attackers might gain access to or otherwise impact sys-
tems and services.
37. C. Policies are a statement of organizational intent. Standards are defined to help organiza-
tion achieve that intent through the use of rules. Policies are typically defined by an organiza-
tion, and standards may be adopted from third parties or created by the organization itself. 
Policies might be defined by law but are not required to be defined that way.
38. A. Service level agreements set forth the expected service level as well as penalties for non-
performance. That means that Sophie needs to determine whether her vendor is meeting their 
promised delivery levels or availability levels and to claim appropriate penalties as defined 
in the contract if they are not met. KPIs may be involved but would be measured against her 
vendor’s performance, not her team’s performance. Security levels and supply chain avail-
ability levels are not the only potential items covered by an SLA.
39. C. Probability and impact are used to describe risk. ALE is the annual loss expectancy, 
or how much risks will likely cost an organization per year, and SLE is the single loss 
expectancy, or how much a single risk will cost if it occurs. Acceptance is a risk- handling pro-
cess, not a way of describing risks.
40. B. The only active reconnaissance task listed here is the nmap scan. Looking up information 
in Shodan, querying local DNS, and using public records are all examples of passive 
information gathering that does not actively probe the organization.
41. B. Data owners are responsible for categorizing, overseeing the usage of, and protecting data, 
but are typically not directly responsible for processing it.
42. B. Knowledge- based authentication information is often easily available via social media 
or searches. Thus, using it as part of password recovery processes is problematic for orga-
nizations. Users will typically remember answers to knowledge- based authentication ques-
tions. While knowledge- based authentication isn’t typically used for multifactor, something 
you know is a legitimate option, and knowledge- based authentication information could be 
recovered from compromised organizations, but this is not a common threat model.
43. D. Mitigation works to limit the impact of a risk, such as by taking action like segmenting 
the network to prevent further malware spread. Avoidance seeks to prevent the risk from 
occurring. Risk transfer options move the costs of risks to another organization such as 
through insurance. Acceptance involves management acknowledging that the risk and its 
impacts may occur, and that the organization will move forward despite that chance.
44. A. Password standards typically include elements like the NIST 800- 63B recommenda-
tions, not using password hints, not expiring passwords, storing passwords in a secure way, 314 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
and establishing a minimum password length of at least 8 characters for user- generated 
passwords.
45. B. Organizations that focus on reducing risk and that have significant compliance require-
ments are likely to adopt a conservative risk appetite. Expansionary risk appetite is rare 
when compliance and risk reduction are primary goals of the organization. Authoritarian and 
legislative are not typically used terms to describe risk appetite.
46. C. Detailed guides to organization practices for security events are called playbooks. In this 
case, Jack received the organization’s ransomware playbook. A policy would include high- 
level statements of intent, cookbooks are not a typical term used for documents like these, 
and this situation involves ransomware, not a disaster recovery scenario.
47. D. Regulations most commonly have fines and sanctions as their primary punishments levied 
against noncompliant organizations. Data breaches and reputational damage may occur, but 
are they are not enforced by regulation. Contractual impacts may occur, but again are not 
directly enforced by regulations.
48. A. Playbooks are detailed documents describing how to respond to a type of incident or 
event. An example is the CISA’s Cybersecurity Incident and Vulnerability Response playbook, 
which includes steps like identifying anomalous activity, identifying root cause, and analyzing 
for common adversary TTPs (www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/  
Federal_Government_Cybersecurity_Incident_and_Vulnerability_  
Response_Playbooks_508C.pdf). They are not legal documents, are detailed instead of 
high-level like a policy, and are more detailed than a general IR process document.
49. B. Nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) are used to protect sensitive data. Service level 
agreements (SLAs) determine service levels and penalties if they are not met. Master service 
agreements (MSAs) are foundational documents determining how organizations will work 
together as a foundation for specific work covered in SOWs (statements of work). BPAs 
(business partners agreements) are used when two organizations want to do business as a 
partnership.
50. C. Onboarding processes commonly include things like new employee orientation, creation 
of user accounts and provisioning of rights for the employee’s account, and ensuring the 
employee has completed security training. Identity proofing may be part of that process, but 
was not mentioned here. Mandatory access control is an access control model, and biometric 
enrollment involves capturing information about an individual’s biometric markers or profile.
51. A. The GDPR provides the right to be forgotten, which allows individuals to request that 
their data be deleted. The rights to deletion, privacy, and ownership were made up for this 
question.
52. B. Acceptance involves management acknowledging that the risk and its impacts may occur, 
and that the organization will move forward despite that chance. Risk transfer options move 
the costs of risks to another organization such as through insurance. Avoidance seeks to pre-
vent the risk from occurring. Mitigation works to limit the impact of a risk, such as by taking 
action to prevent further malware spread.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  315
53. B. Sending organizational data with a departing employee is not a common practice. In 
fact, organizations often ask employees to certify that they have returned all organiza-
tional devices and data. Returning company equipment, disabling the departing employee’s 
accounts or removing them, and changing any passwords on shared accounts are all common 
offboarding practices.
54. D. Neutral risk appetites balance organizational goals against risk. Conservative risk appe-
tites seek to reduce risks over addressing other goals, and expansionary risk appetites will 
accept risk to achieve goals. Reactionary is not a typical description of risk appetite.
55. C. Known environment tests provide full information to testers, allowing them to use 
information about the environment without having to discover it. Partially known envi-
ronment tests provide some, but not all information about the environment for testers. 
Unknown environment tests simulate what an attacker would encounter and do not pro-
vide information; instead, the testers have to discover it themselves. Third- party tests are 
conducted by external groups or individuals and may be known, unknown, or partial 
knowledge tests.
56. D. BPAs, or business partners agreements, are used when two organizations want to do 
business as a partnership. SLAs, or service level agreements, determine service levels and pen-
alties if they are not met. Nondisclosure agreements, or NDAs, are used to protect sensitive 
data. Master service agreements, or MSAs, are foundational documents determining how 
organizations will work together as a foundation for specific work covered in SOWs, or 
statements of work.
57. B. Unknown environment tests simulate what an attacker would encounter and do not pro-
vide information; instead, the testers have to discover it themselves. Known environment tests 
provide full information to testers, allowing them to use information about the environment 
without having to discover it. Partially known environment tests provide some, but not all 
information about the environment for testers. Third- party tests are conducted by external 
groups or individuals and may be known, unknown, or partial knowledge tests.
58. B. Likelihood describes the possibility of a risk occurring. Impact describes what will happen 
if it does, potential is not a term used in this space, and rate of occurrence is how often a risk 
occurs on an annual basis.
59. C. Known environment tests provide full information to testers, allowing them to use 
information about the environment without having to discover it. This means that the test-
ing will be more efficient and will provide more information in most cases. Partially known 
environment tests provide some, but not all information about the environment for testers. 
Unknown environment tests simulate what an attacker would encounter and do not pro-
vide information; instead, the testers have to discover it themselves. Third- party tests are 
conducted by external groups or individuals and may be known, unknown, or partial 
knowledge tests.
60. B. Risk exception recognizes risk areas where an organization may not be in compliance 
with policies or regulations, and may be acknowledged because they cannot be addressed in a 
timely manner or are required for the organization to conduct business. Risk transfer options 
move the costs of risks to another organization such as through insurance. Risk avoidance 316 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
involves preventing the risk from occurring. Mitigation works to limit the impact of a risk, 
such as by taking action to prevent further malware spread.
61. C. Regulatory compliance typically requires risk assessment on a regular basis, often once a 
year. Ad hoc, one- time, and continuous risk assessments are used for other purposes to serve 
the organization but are not as common for regulatory compliance.
62. A. Partially known environment tests provide some, but not all information about the 
environment for testers. In this case, knowledge of the systems, IPs, and services is an 
example of partial knowledge. Known environment tests provide full information to testers, 
allowing them to use information about the environment without having to discover it. 
Unknown environment tests simulate what an attacker would encounter and do not pro-
vide information; instead, the testers have to discover it themselves. Third- party tests are 
conducted by external groups or individuals and may be known, unknown, or partial 
knowledge tests.
63. B. An organization willing to accept significant risk has adopted an expansionary risk appe-
tite. Neutral risk appetites balance risk and other factors, conservative appetites seek to limit 
risk rather than prioritize other goals or objectives, and limited is not a term used on the 
Security+ exam objectives in this area.
64. A. Information gathering and scanning together are common elements of reconnaissance. 
Since this involves both scanning and OSINT gathering, this is reconnaissance instead of 
passive information gathering via OSINT. Known environment tests provide full information 
to testers, allowing them to use information about the environment without having to dis-
cover it. Unknown environment tests simulate what an attacker would encounter and do not 
provide information; instead, the testers have to discover it themselves.
65. A. Individuals who use the GDPR’s right to be forgotten are data subjects, a person who can 
be identified by their personally identifiable information. Data controllers determine how 
data will be used, and processors do the actual data processing. Data owners are responsible 
for protection, usage, and quality of datasets.
66. C. Exposure factors are the percentage of value of an asset that would be lost due to an inci-
dent. ALE is the annual loss expectancy, and the ARO is the annual rate of occurrence. SLE is 
the single loss expectancy. Calculating these gives the cost of an incident, but EF is the impact 
of the risk and is not calculated using these, nor does it involve the likelihood of the risk.
67. C. Physical security testing involves testing an organization’s physical security defenses and 
practices, including guards, locks and doors, and other physical security components. Offen-
sive penetration testing involves acting like attackers, while defensive penetration testing 
seeks to learn as defenders. Integrated penetration testing combines both.
68. D. Integrated penetration testing combines both offensive and defensive penetration testing, 
and testing guards as well as attempting to make it through access controls is an example of 
an integrated test. Physical security testing involves testing an organization’s physical secu-
rity defenses and practices, including guards, locks and doors, and other physical security 
components like access control vestibules. Offensive penetration testing involves acting like 
attackers, while defensive penetration testing seeks to learn as defenders.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  317
69. B. Offensive penetration testing involves acting like attackers, including nation- state actors 
with advanced capabilities like those described in this question. Physical security testing 
involves testing an organization’s physical security defenses and practices, including guards, 
locks and doors, and other physical security components like access control vestibules. 
Defensive penetration testing seeks to learn as defenders. Integrated penetration testing com-
bines both.
70. B. The GDPR is a regulation, making this a regulatory assessment or audit. There is no pene-
tration testing mentioned, the auditors are not described as internal or external, and no attes-
tation is mentioned.
71. A. Secure, ransomware resistant backups can mitigate the impact of ransomware but cannot 
stop it from impacting systems like an endpoint detection and response (EDR) tool can. Since 
Alexandria’s focus is on immediate mitigation, her best answer is EDR. Cybersecurity insur -
ance is a means of transferring risk, and simply operating as usual is an acceptance strategy.
72. B. Shane’s organization has determined their risk appetite. They are willing to accept some 
risk, but may also choose to mitigate, transfer, or otherwise deal with their risk to match their 
appetite. Ad hoc describes risk assessment, not risk appetite or thresholds, and there is no 
way to determine if this is a conservative, neutral, or expansionary risk appetite.
73. C. Defensive penetration testing seeks to allow the organization to learn as defenders. Offen-
sive penetration testing involves acting like attackers, including nation- state actors with 
advanced capabilities like those described in this question. Physical security testing involves 
testing an organization’s physical security defenses and practices, including guards, locks and 
doors, and other physical security components like access control vestibules. Integrated pene-
tration testing combines both.
74. D. Integrated penetration testing combines both offensive and defensive techniques and is 
often woven into an organization’s practices on an ongoing basis. Offensive penetration test-
ing involves acting like attackers, including nation- state actors with advanced capabilities like 
those described in this question. Defensive penetration testing seeks to allow the organiza-
tion to learn as defenders. Physical security testing involves testing an organization’s physical 
security defenses and practices, including guards, locks and doors, and other physical security 
components like access control vestibules.
75. D. Auditors provide a statement about an organization’s posture as part of an attestation 
process. This provides assurance that the auditors have reviewed the organization’s practices 
and have found them suitable or that deficiencies have been identified. Penetration testing 
is the process of testing the security of an organization and is not an audit. Audit sign- off 
occurs when management signs an audit to acknowledge their awareness of its results. 
Regulatory defense was made up for this question.
76. A. Without more information about the specific audits that Joe conducts, all we know is that 
he is an internal auditor. As an employee of the company that he is working for, he is con-
sidered an internal auditor. External audits are conducted by third parties. Regulatory audits 
assess compliance with laws, whereas compliance audits may look at laws or other compli-
ance targets.318 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
77. D. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is an industry standard, 
not a law, so this is a compliance audit, not a regulatory audit. Third- party auditors make it 
an external rather than an internal audit.
78. B. Filling out forms attesting to your own organization’s compliance status is an example 
of a self- assessment. This is not an audit activity, PCI DSS is not a regulation, and no third 
parties were involved to make it external or independent and third party.
79. C. Audit committees are typically part of the organization’s board of directors, and they 
oversee financial reporting–related activities. Audit committees are required for US- traded 
companies that are listed on stock exchanges. Shareholders, third- party assessors, and the 
security office are not typical places to find an audit committee.
80. D. Continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines deploy software on an 
ongoing basis, making them a good fit for continuous risk assessment techniques. Ad hoc, 
one- time, and third- party assessments are not suited to the ongoing, rapid assessment pace 
needed for a CI/CD model.
81. B. External audits like a SOC 2, Type 2 audit should be conducted by an independent 
third party to be considered valid. An internal audit, no matter who signs off on it, is not 
used for this purpose, nor are self- assessments. Penetration tests do not generate an SOC 2 
audit report.
82. D. An organization’s risk threshold is the level where they will switch from accepting a 
risk to seeking to handle the risk. In this case, the risk has surpassed the organization’s risk 
threshold, resulting in a plan to avoid the risk. The risk did not drop below the threshold, the 
risk assessment was successful in helping the organization identify a concern, and no con-
trols failed.
83. A. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) is a regulation, and 
organizations that must comply with laws need to conduct regulatory assessments. Offensive 
testing is a penetration testing model that mirrors actual attackers. Known environment test-
ing leverages full knowledge of an organization as part of a penetration test. Physical testing 
validates physical security controls.
84. A. Policies are high- level descriptions of an organization’s intent and understanding of their 
topic. Procedures will have descriptions of how a change is made in detailed form, while 
standards will describe how changes are created, made, and approved. Regulatory require-
ments are most likely to be part of standards or procedures.
85. C. Marek should follow his organization’s change management process to document the 
change required and to ensure that it is regularly reviewed. This may not require a risk 
assessment since it may be a simple requirement or may have already been assessed. The type 
of security variance needed is not described, so it is not clear if removing the system from the 
network is necessary.
86. A. Business continuity plans address how the organization will respond, including 
referencing runbooks that may detail how to handle restoration or other efforts on a step- by- 
step basis, but doesn’t itself include that level of detail. Business continuity policies describe 
the organization’s intent at a high level and are likely to reference the business continuity 
plan. They are not the same, as the policy is a higher- level document than the plan is.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  319
87. C. Policies are distinct from procedures and standards because they include high- level state-
ments of intent rather than specific practices. Procedures document the practices an organi-
zation will use, whereas standards set expectations or specific configurations or details about 
how something is done or set up.
88. C. The EU’s GDPR provides the right to be forgotten, which allows Terry to request that 
organizations remove all of his data from their systems. HIPAA is a US regulation; data stew-
ardship is an organizational role, not a right; and personal data ownership is not a right.
89. B. Risk exposure is calculated by multiplying probability and impact. Cost is measured in 
currency, time, or other cost metrics; vulnerability is often measured using CVSS scores; and 
audit findings may have criticality ratings.
90. B. Qualitative risk assessment relies on expertise and staff members who have relevant 
knowledge to provide a rating based on their experience, skills, and knowledge. A common 
rating for probability in a qualitative risk assessment might be low, medium, or high, rather 
than a 0–100 rating based on statistics or large datasets.
91. B. Rules of engagement determine how a penetration tester will conduct an engagement. 
Passwords may be part of the information provided before the test for a full knowledge or 
partial knowledge test but are not part of the rules of engagement.
92. D. Rules of engagement are created for penetration testing efforts that include a wide variety 
of information, including scope, schedules, what to do if a preexisting compromise is dis-
covered, requirements for how to handle third- party- hosted tools and environments, how 
sensitive data and data related to the penetration test will be handled, and who to contact 
in emergencies. A right- to- audit clause is included in contracts, allowing audits to occur as 
part of the contract. SLAs are used to set service levels and penalties if they are not met, and 
MOUs document organizations’ interest and willingness to work together.
93. A. An organization’s risk threshold is the level where they will switch from accepting a risk 
to seeking to handle the risk. Their risk appetite is the amount of risk an organization is wil-
ling to accept to achieve its goals. Ad hoc risk level and third- party risk level were made up 
for this question.
94. D. AUPs, or acceptable use policies, describe how organizational resources, systems, and ser -
vices can and should be used.
95. C. Large breaches, particularly when the organization has been negligent, can have large 
impacts on the organization’s reputation, resulting in long- term damage. Fines and contrac-
tual impacts may be impactful but are often resolved relatively quickly. Due diligence was not 
shown but is not an impact— rather, it is part of an organization’s responsibilities.
96. B. A statement of work (SOW) or work order (WO) is created to list the tasks and deliver -
ables that will be performed under the blanket master services agreement (MSA). An MOU, 
or memorandum of understanding, declares how two organizations want to work together; a 
business partners agreement (BPA) establishes a partnership between two organizations; and 
punch lists are not covered under the Security+ exam outline but are a list of tasks that must 
be accomplished for a contractor to be paid.320 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
97. D. Jack should use the manufacturer’s published mean time between failures (MTBF), 
which is a measure of the reliability of a system. It is the expected amount of time that will 
elapse between system failures. While organizations typically replace devices well before 
their MTBF ratings, knowing how long the devices should last on average can be useful in 
long- lived applications and for budgetary planning. A recovery time objective, or RTO, is 
set by organizations to describe how long restoring systems or services to normal function 
after a disruption can take. Mean time to repair, or MTTR, is the average time it takes to 
repair a system or device. A recovery point objective, or RPO, describes how much data can 
be lost in the event of an outage or issue.
98. D. Mean time between failures (MTBF) is a measure of the reliability of a system. It is 
the expected amount of time that will elapse between system failures, but it is merely an 
average. Jason should expect that drives will fail, and that their average service life will be 
300,000 hours. That means that half of the drives are likely to fail before 300,000 hours, 
and half will fail after that number.
99. C. A recovery point objective, or RPO, describes how much data can be lost in the event 
of an outage or issue. A recovery time objective, or RTO, is set by organizations to describe 
how long restoring systems or services to normal function after a disruption can take. Mean 
time to repair, or MTTR, is the average time it takes to repair a system or device. The mean 
time between failures (MTBF) is a measure of the reliability of a system. It is the expected 
amount of time that will elapse between system failures.
100. A. The Security+ exam objectives list three categorizations you need to be familiar with for 
anomalous behavior: risky, unexpected, and unintentional. The other terms listed are not 
ways that the exam categorizes anomalous behavior.
101. A. Greg has conducted an ad hoc assessment by quickly pulling together a team without 
a formal process or procedure. Instead, he is seeking to quickly assess risk and take action. 
A one- time assessment typically follows an established methodology but is only con-
ducted once. Third- party risk assessment uses external teams or staff, and continuous risk 
assessment is done on an ongoing basis.
102. B. Mean time to repair, or MTTR, is the average time it takes to repair a system or device, 
and Olivia needs to know that to determine what she can promise in her service level 
agreements that rely on server repair timelines. A recovery time objective, or RTO, is set by 
organizations to describe how long restoring systems or services to normal function after 
a disruption can take; it doesn’t determine how fast the server can be fixed but sets a goal 
that needs to take things like repair and recovery time into account as it is determined. A 
recovery point objective, or RPO, describes how much data can be lost in the event of an 
outage or issue, and the mean time between failures (MTBF) is a measure of the reliability 
of a system. It is the expected amount of time that will elapse between system failures.
103. C. The underlying agreement between two organizations that determines how the organi-
zations will work together is a master services agreement (MSA). A MOU, or memorandum 
of understanding, declares how two organizations want to work together; a business part-
ners agreement (BPA) establishes a partnership between two organizations; SLAs (service 
level agreements) set service level expectations and penalties if they are not met; and a 
business partners agreement (BPA) establishes two organizations as partners rather than 
establishing a working relationship for services as set forth in SOWs.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  321
104. C. A recovery point objective, or RPO, describes how much data can be lost in the event 
of an outage or issue, and journaling allows recovery of database transactions by replay-
ing them against the database once it is restored. Journaling may slow down recovery time 
objectives as the actions are replayed. A recovery time objective, or RTO, is set by organi-
zations to describe how long restoring systems or services to normal function after a dis-
ruption can take. Mean time to repair, or MTTR, is the average time it takes to repair a 
system or device. The mean time between failures (MTBF) is a measure of the reliability of 
a system. It is the expected amount of time that will elapse between system failures.
105. B. A recovery time objective, or RTO, is set by organizations to describe how long restoring 
systems or services to normal function after a disruption can take. A 12- hour RTO means 
that recovery from outages should take less than 12 hours. Failing over to a warm site will 
typically take a while, meaning that starting to fail over after 12 hours will miss the RTO, 
and MTBF is the mean time between failures, not a recovery timeframe. Failing every 12 
hours on average would be unacceptable for almost any technical service or system!
106. B. Valerie should immediately begin a move to the warm site. She knows that moving to 
her warm site takes half the average time to repair for her datacenter’s power infrastruc-
ture. That means that in most cases, moving will result in at least a 12- hour shorter out-
age. If the time to repair proves to be shorter than 12 hours, she can simply stop the move. 
Waiting does not restore her to operation sooner than 24 hours in the average case, and 
waiting to make the decision reduces the amount of advantage she gets from moving to the 
warm site.
107. A. Quantitative risk assessments assign numeric values and calculations to determine 
relative risk. Qualitative risk assessment uses knowledge and expertise to assess risk. Cal-
culated risk is not a term that is commonly used to describe assessment processes like these, 
and risk registers list risks that an organization has identified but that don’t necessarily 
involve calculations.
108. B. Risk registers list organizations risks and their ratings, along with additional 
information that the organization uses to track or describe risks. Risk appetite plans, 
quantitative registers, and qualitative assessment reports were made up for this question.
109. C. Qualitative risk assessment uses knowledge and expertise to assess risk and are thus 
typically faster and more likely to be completed than a quantitative risk assessment. 
Quantitative risk assessments assign numeric values and calculations to determine relative 
risk. Choosing internal or external risk assessments is not a primary driver of speed com-
pared to choosing quantitative over qualitative risk assessments.
110. D. SLE, or single loss expectancy, uses the asset value (AV) and exposure factor (EF) to 
determine the SLE. Purchase date, which department manages the server, and its operating 
system are not part of the calculation.
111. B. Undertaking reasonable steps to meet legal requirements like compliance with regu-
lations is known as due diligence. Data stewardship may be part of those actions, but it 
focuses on oversight of data and data governance and may not be specifically regulatory 
focused.322 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
112. B. Single loss expectancy, or SLE, is calculated by multiplying the asset value (AV) by the 
exposure factor (EF). In this case, that means that the potential loss during a loss event 
would be $125,000.
113. A. Annualized loss expectancy (ALE) is calculated by multiplying the annual rate of 
occurrence (ARO) by the single loss expectancy (SLE). If a single loss expectancy for a 
$1,000,000 asset is $100,000 and the annual rate of occurrence is .5— in other words, it 
happens every two years on average— then the ALE is $50,000.
114. D. Waylon is a risk owner. He is responsible for ensuring that the risks related to data and 
the application are managed appropriately. Board members have overall responsibility for 
an organization. Data processors have a data role, not a risk ownership role, and auditors 
assess organizations against standards and practices rather than owning risk.
115. B. Without a license to operate, Nathaniel’s organization will be unable to conduct 
business. Reputational damage, fines, and contractual impacts can all be navigated if the 
organization can continue to do business.
116. C. Susan can calculate the single loss expectancy (SLE) by multiplying the asset value (AV) 
by the exposure factor (EF), resulting in $25,000. If this loss occurs twice a year, then the 
annualized loss expectancy (ALE) is $50,000.
117. A. Annual rate of occurrence is calculated by determining how many times in a year the 
event happens, on average. If it happens less than once a year, the rate is a fraction based 
on that rate. Here the event happens once every four years, or .25 of the time during a 
given year.
118. D. Annualized loss expectancy is calculated by multiplying the annualized rate of occur -
rence (ARO) and the single loss expectancy (SLE). Total cost of ownership (TCO) and 
recovery point objectives (RPO) are not part of this type of risk calculation.
119. B. Passive reconnaissance is any reconnaissance that is done without actually connecting 
to the target. In this case, John is conducting a form of OSINT, or open source intelligence, 
by using commonly available third- party information sources to gather information about 
his target. Active reconnaissance involves communicating with the target network, such 
as doing a port scan. The initial exploitation is not information gathering; it is actually 
breaking into the target network. A pivot is when you have breached one system and use 
that to move to another system.
120. C. Using default settings is a form of weak configuration and indicates that the organiza-
tion is not using baselines effectively and may not have appropriate processes and standards 
in place. Many vulnerability scanners and attack tools have default settings built- in to test 
with, and default settings are easily obtained for most devices with a quick search of the 
Internet. Configuring the accounts is not the issue; using default credentials and settings is. 
Although training users is important, that’s not the issue in this scenario. Patching systems 
is important, but that won’t change default settings.
121. D. Active reconnaissance connects to the network using techniques such as port scanning. 
Both active and passive reconnaissance can be done manually or with tools. Unknown and 
known environment tests refer to the amount of information the tester is given. Attackers 
and testers use both types of reconnaissance.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  323
122. B. The rules of engagement for a penetration test typically include the type and scope of 
testing, client contact information and requirements for when the team should be notified, 
sensitive data handling requirements, and details of regular status meetings and reports. The 
remaining options were made up for this question.
123. B. Unlike a disaster recovery plan that is written to help an organization recovery from 
a person- made or natural disaster, a business continuity plan focuses on how to keep the 
business running when it is disrupted. Thus, Charlene’s BC plan would detail how to keep 
the organization running when a system outage occurs.
124. C. Many cloud service providers do not allow customer- driven audits, either by the cus-
tomer or a third party. They also commonly prohibit vulnerability scans of their production 
environment to avoid service outages. Instead, many provide third- party audit results in the 
form of a service organization controls (SOC) report or similar audit artifact.
125. D. A disaster recovery plan addresses what to do during a person- made or natural disaster. 
A flood that completely fills a datacenter would require significant efforts to recover from, 
and Gurvinder will need a solid disaster recovery plan— and perhaps a new datacenter 
location as soon as possible! A COOP, or continuity of operations plan, is needed for 
U.S. government agencies but is not required for businesses. A business continuity plan 
would cover how to keep the business running, but it does not cover all the requirements 
in a natural disaster of this scale, and a flood insurance plan is not a term used in the 
Security+ exam objectives.
126. C. Right- to- audit clauses are commonly accepted as part of service and leasing contracts 
regardless of location for datacenter co- location and facility rental contracts. Cloud service 
providers, however, are less likely to sign a right- to- audit contract. Instead, they may pro-
vide third- party audit data to customers or even to potential customers.
127. A. Playbooks list the actions that an organization will take as part of a response process. A 
runbook lists the steps required to perform an action like notification, removing malware, 
or similar tasks. Playbooks tend to be used to document processes, whereas runbooks tend 
to be used for specific actions. A disaster recovery (DR) plan is used to recover from disas-
ters, and a business continuity (BC) plan is used to ensure that the organization continues 
to function.
128. A. Caroline should select ISO 27002. ISO 27002 is an international standard for imple-
menting and maintaining information security systems. ISO 27701 is an international 
standard security technique for privacy information management systems; NIST 800- 12 
is a general security standard and it is a US standard, not an international one; and 
NIST 800- 53 is a collection of security and privacy controls for information systems and 
organizations.
129. C. Change management is the process of documenting all changes made to a company’s 
network and computers. Avoiding making changes at the same time makes tracking any 
problems that can occur much simpler. Due diligence is the process of investigation and ver -
ification of the accuracy of a particular act. Acceptable use policies state what actions and 
practices are allowed in an organization while using technology. Due care is the effort made 
by a reasonable party to avoid harm to another. It is the level of judgment, care, determina-
tion, and activity a person would reasonably expect to do under certain conditions.324 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
130. A. An acceptable use policy (AUP) is a document stating what a user may or may not 
have access to on a company’s network or the Internet. A clean desk policy ensures that all 
sensitive/confidential documents are removed from an end- user workstation and locked 
up when the documents are not in use. Mandatory vacation policy is used by companies 
to detect fraud by having a second person, familiar with the duties, help discover any illicit 
activities. Job rotation is a policy that describes the practice of moving employees between 
different tasks. Job rotation can help detect fraud because employees cannot perform the 
same actions for long periods of time.
131. C. The PCI DSS, or Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, is a security standard 
that is mandated by credit card vendors. The Payment Card Industry Security Standards 
Council is responsible for updates and changes to the standard. GDPR, or the General Data 
Protection Regulation, is a standard for data privacy and security in the European Union 
(EU). COPPA is the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, a U.S. federal law. CIS is the 
Center for Internet Security and is not a law or a regulation.
132. D. Quantitative risk assessment is the process of assigning numerical values to the proba-
bility an event will occur and what the impact of the event will have. Change management 
is the process of managing configuration changes made to a network. Vulnerability 
assessment attempts to identify, quantify, and rank the weaknesses in a system. Qualitative 
risk assessment is the process of ranking which risk poses the most danger using ratings like 
low, medium, and high.
133. D. A memorandum of understanding (MOU) is a type of agreement that is usually not 
legally binding. This agreement is intended to be mutually beneficial without involving 
courts or money. An SLA (service level agreement) defines the level of service the customer 
expects from the service provider. The level of service definitions should be specific and 
measurable in each area. A BPA (business partner agreement) is a legal agreement between 
partners. It establishes the terms, conditions, and expectations of the relationship between 
the partners. An ISA (interconnection security agreement) is an agreement that specifies the 
technical and security requirements of the interconnection between organizations.
134. A. The single loss expectancy (SLE) is the product of the asset value ($16,000) and the 
exposure factor (.35), or $5,600.
135. A. Risk acceptance is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk that is suf-
ficiently unlikely or that has such limited impact that a corrective control is not warranted. 
Risk transfer is the act of moving the risk to hosted providers who assume the responsi-
bility for recovery and restoration or by acquiring insurance to cover the costs emerging 
from a risk. Risk avoidance is the removal of the vulnerability that can increase a particular 
risk so that it is avoided altogether. Risk mitigation is when a company implements con-
trols to reduce vulnerabilities or weaknesses in a system. It can also reduce the impact of 
a threat.
136. D. A parking policy generally outlines parking provisions for employees and visitors. This 
includes the criteria and procedures for allocating parking spaces for employees and is not 
a part of organizational security policy. Instead, it is an operational or business policy. An 
acceptable use policy (AUP) describes the limits and guidelines for users to make use of an Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  325
organization’s physical and intellectual resources. This includes allowing or limiting the use 
of personal email during work hours. Business continuity policies describe how the organi-
zation approaches business continuity efforts, and incident response (IR) policies document 
the organization’s IR intentions and high- level goals.
137. A. Quantitative risk assessment is the process of assigning numerical values like cost 
and frequency of occurrence to the probability an event will occur and what impact the 
event will have, and thus directly evaluates the cost of a risk occurring. Qualitative risk 
assessment is the process of ranking which risk poses the most danger such as low, medium, 
and high. A business impact analysis (BIA) is used to evaluate the possible effect a business 
can suffer should an interruption to critical system operations occur. This interruption 
could be as a result of an accident, emergency, or disaster. Threat assessment is the process 
of identifying and categorizing different threats such as environmental and person- made.  
It also attempts to identify the potential impact from the threats.
138. D. A nondisclosure agreement (NDA) protects sensitive and intellectual data from getting 
into the wrong hands. An NDA is a legal contract between the company and a third- party 
vendor to not disclose information per the agreement. Encrypted data that is sent can still 
be decrypted by the third- party vendor if they have the appropriate certificate or the key 
but does not restrict access to the data. Violating an NDA would constitute unauthorized 
data sharing, and a violation of privileged user role- based awareness training has nothing 
to do with sharing proprietary information.
139. C. Sharing of profits and losses and the addition or removal of a partner, as well as 
the responsibilities of each partner, are typically included in a BPA (business partner 
agreement). Expectations between parties such as a company and an Internet service pro-
vider are typically found in a service level agreement (SLA). Expectations include the level 
of performance given during the contractual service. An SLA will provide a clear means 
of determining whether a specific function or service has been provided according to the 
agreed- on level of performance. Security requirements associated with interconnecting IT 
systems are typically found in an interconnection security agreement, or ISA.
140. D. Systems should be restored within four hours with a minimum loss of one day’s worth 
of data. The RTO (recovery time objective) is the amount of time within which a pro-
cess or service must be restored after a disaster to meet business continuity. It defines how 
much time it takes to recover after notification of process disruption. The recovery point 
objective, or RPO, specifies the amount of time that can pass before the amount of data lost 
may exceed the organization’s maximum tolerance for data loss.
141. A. A data retention policy defines how long an organization will keep data. Removing 
sensitive documents not in use is a clean desk policy. A formal process for managing config-
uration changes is change management, and a memorandum of understanding consists of 
legal documents that describe mutual agreement between two parties.
142. B. ALE (annual loss expectancy) is the product of the ARO (annual rate of occurrence) 
and the SLE (single loss expectancy) and is mathematically expressed as ALE = ARO × 
SLE. Single loss expectancy is the cost of any single loss, and it is mathematically expressed 
as SLE = AV (asset value) × EF (exposure factor).326 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
143. C. Risk transfer is the act of moving the risk to hosted providers who assume the respon-
sibility for recovery and restoration or by acquiring insurance to cover the costs emerging 
from a risk. Risk acceptance is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk 
that is sufficiently unlikely or that has such limited impact that a corrective control is not 
warranted. Risk mitigation is when a company implements controls to reduce vulnerabil-
ities or weaknesses in a system. It can also reduce the impact of a threat. Risk avoidance 
is the removal of the vulnerability that can increase a particular risk so that it is avoided 
altogether.
144. C. The mean time between failures (MTBF) is a measure of the reliability of a system or 
component. It is the expected amount of time that will elapse between system or device 
failures. MTTR (mean time to repair) is the average time it takes for a failed device or 
component to be repaired or replaced. An RPO (recovery point objective) is the period of 
time a company can tolerate lost data being unrecoverable between backups. ALE (annual 
loss expectancy) is the product of the annual rate of occurrence (ARO) and the single loss 
expectancy (SLE).
145. A. Quantitative risk analysis requires complex calculations and is more time- consuming 
because it requires detailed financial data and calculations. Quantitative risk assessment 
is often subjective and requires expertise on systems and infrastructure, and both types of 
assessment can provide clear answers on risk- based questions.
146. B. Risk acceptance is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk that is suf-
ficiently unlikely or that has such limited impact that a corrective control is not warranted. 
Risk mitigation is when a company implements controls to reduce vulnerabilities or weak-
nesses in a system. It can also reduce the impact of a threat. Risk avoidance is the removal 
of the vulnerability that can increase a particular risk so that it is avoided altogether. 
Risk transfer is the act of moving the risk to other organizations like insurance providers 
or hosting companies who assume the responsibility for recovery and restoration or by 
acquiring insurance to cover the costs emerging from a risk.
147. A. Data owners assign labels such as top secret to data. Custodians assign security controls 
to data. A privacy officer ensures that companies comply with privacy laws and regulations. 
System administrators are responsible for the overall functioning of IT systems.
148. B. ALE (annual loss expectancy) = SLE (single loss expectancy) × ARO (annualized rate 
of occurrence). SLE equals $750,000 (2,500 records × $300), and ARO equals 5%, so 
$750,000 times 5% equals $37,500.
149. C. RPO (recovery point objective) specifies the allowable data loss. It is the amount of time 
that can pass during an interruption before the quantity of data lost during that period sur -
passes business continuity planning’s maximum acceptable threshold. MTBF (mean time 
between failures) is the rating on a device or component that predicts the expected time 
between failures. MTTR (mean time to repair) is the average time it takes for a failed device 
or component to be repaired or replaced. ARO (annual rate of occurrence) is the ratio of an 
estimated possibility that a threat will take place within a one- year time frame.
150. C. Onboarding is the process of adding an employee to a company’s identity and access 
management system. Offboarding is the process of removing an employee from the Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  327
company’s identity and access management system. A system owner is an individual who 
is in charge of managing one or more systems and can include patching and updating 
operating systems. An executive user was made up for this question.
151. D. This is a procedure, which documents what you should do in general terms. A policy 
lays out an organization’s intent, and this is more specific than that. A playbook has 
specific, detailed action, and this procedure does not include that level of detail. Checklists 
are a step- by- step guide to accomplishing a task, and this document outlines required steps, 
not step- by- step detail.
152. B. Organizational policy frameworks typically contain policies, standards and procedures 
that support and expand on the policy, and guidelines. Risk registers, audit reports, vul-
nerability scans, and pentest reports are all artifacts organizations generate in support 
of information security practices. Laws are not part of a policy framework but may 
influence it.
153. C. The mean time to repair (MTTR) for a system or devices is the average time that it will 
take to repair it if it fails. The MTTR is used as part of business continuity planning to 
determine if a system needs additional redundancy or other options put in place if a failure 
and repair would exceed the maximum tolerable outage. It is calculated by dividing the 
total maintenance time by the total number of repairs. MTBF is the mean time between fail-
ures, MTTF the mean time to failure, and MITM is an on- path attack.
154. A. Helen has created a disaster recovery plan (DRP). RPOs, or recovery point objectives, 
are set to determine how much data may be lost if an event or incident occurs; incident 
response plans focus on incidents, not outages or disasters; and MTBF, or mean time bet-
ween failures, is not a type of plan.
155. B. Personal health information (PHI) may be covered by state, local, or federal law, and 
Greg’s organization should ensure that they understand any applicable laws before storing, 
processing, or handling health information.
156. D. An individual is most likely to face identity theft issues if their personally identifiable 
information (PII) is stolen or breached.
157. C. It is common practice to prohibit interactive logins to a GUI or shell for service 
accounts. Use of a service account for interactive logins or attempting to log in as one 
should be immediately flagged and alerted on as an indicator of compromise (IoC).
158. D. Emma should categorize this as a supply chain risk. When organizations cannot get the 
systems, equipment, and supplies they need to operate, it can have a significant impact on 
their ability to conduct business. That could create financial risk, but financial risk is not 
the direct risk here. There is no indication that the vendor will not support the systems, nor 
is there any information about whether there is an integration issue in the description.
159. B. Patching is a form of avoidance because it works to remove a risk from the environment. 
Acceptance of flaws that need patching would involve leaving the software unpatched; 
mitigation strategies might include firewalls, intrusion prevention systems (IPSs), or web 
application firewall (WAF) devices; and transference options include third- party hosting or 
services.328 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
160. A. The fines that can result from violation or infringement of regulations like the General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) can have a significant impact on an organization, or 
could even potentially put it out of business. Due to this, organizations will track compli-
ance with regulations as part of their risk posture.
161. D. Disaster recovery requires forethought and preparation, response to issues to minimize 
impact during a disaster, and response activities after a disaster. Thus, a complete disaster 
recovery plan should include actions that may or will occur before, during, and after a 
disaster, and not just the recovery process after the fact.
162. B. Although data breaches could result in termination of a card processing agreement, 
the fact that her organization is noncompliant is most likely to result in a fine. PCI DSS, 
or Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, is a vendor standard, not a law, and 
criminal charges would not typically be filed in a situation like this.
163. D. The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, requires a data protection officer 
(DPO). They oversee the organization’s data protection strategy and implementation, and 
make sure that the organization complies with the GDPR.
164. B. An SLA (service level agreement) defines the level of service the customer expects from 
the service provider. The level of service definitions should be specific and measurable in 
each area. An MOU (memorandum of understanding) is a legal document that describes 
a mutual agreement between parties. An ISA (interconnection security agreement) is an 
agreement that specifies the technical and security requirements of the interconnection 
between organizations. A BPA (business partners agreement) is a legal agreement between 
partners. It establishes the terms, conditions, and expectations of the relationship between 
the partners.
165. C. The likelihood of occurrence, or probability, is multiplied by the impact to determine a 
risk’s severity.
166. D. Organizations can determine how they want to determine asset value, but consistency is 
important in many cases. Thus, the original cost, the replacement cost, or a depreciated cost 
may be used.
167. A. A business impact analysis (BIA) helps to identify critical systems by determining which 
systems will create the largest impact if they are not available. MTBF is the mean time 
between failures, an RTO is a recovery time objective, and an ICD was made up for this 
question.
168. D. The most common means of transferring breach risk is to purchase cybersecurity insur -
ance. Accepting breaches is rarely considered a valid risk process, blaming breaches on 
competitors does not actually transfer risk, and selling data to another organization is not a 
risk handling process but may be a business process.
169. C. The cost of a breach is an example of the impact of a breach. Probability is how likely 
the risk is to occur, and risk severity is calculated by multiplying probability and impact.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  329
170. C. Gathering vulnerability information for a system that isn’t scannable from the Internet 
will require active reconnaissance as part of the penetration testing effort. OSINT and 
passive reconnaissance do not involve active scans, and known environments provide full 
knowledge of the environment.
171. B. Olivia should establish a service level agreement (SLA) with her provider to ensure that 
they meet the expected level of service. If they don’t, financial or other penalties are typ-
ically included. Olivia should ensure that those penalties are meaningful to her vendor 
to make sure they are motivated to meet the SLA. An MOU is a memorandum of under -
standing and explains the relationship between two organizations; an MSA is a master 
services agreement, which establishes a business relationship under which additional 
work orders or other documentation describe the actual work that is done; and a BPA is a 
business partners agreement, which is used when companies wish to partner on efforts and 
may outline division of profits or responsibilities in the partnership.
172. A. The single loss expectancy (SLE) describes what a single risk event is likely to cost. It is 
calculated using the asset value (AV) times the exposure factor (EF), which is an estimated 
percentage of the cost that will occur in damage if the loss occurs. MTTR is the mean time 
to repair, ARO is the annual rate of occurrence, and RTO is the recovery time objective. 
These are not part of the SLE equation.
173. B. Annual rate of occurrence (ARO) is expressed as the number of times an event will 
occur in a year. Wayne has estimated that the risk event that is being assessed will happen 
three times a year.
174. D. Data processors are service providers that process data for data controllers. A data 
controller or data owner is the organization or individual who collects and controls data. 
A data steward carries out the intent of the data controller and is delegated responsibility 
for the data. Data custodians are those who are entrusted with the data to store, manage, or 
secure the data.
175. C. Nicole is a data controller, sometimes called a data owner. She determines the reasons 
for processing personal information and how it is processed. A data steward carries out the 
intents of the data controller, data custodians are charged with safeguarding information, 
and data consumer is not a common data privacy role.
176. D. Kirk has mitigated the risk to his organization by increasing the resources targeted by 
the DoS attack in an attempt to ensure that the attack will not be successful. Acceptance 
would involve simply letting the attacks occur knowing they are likely to stop, avoidance 
might involve finding a way to ensure the attacks cannot occur, and transfer could leverage 
a third- party mirror or anti- DoS hosting service.
177. C. Offboarding processes are conducted to ensure that accounts and access are removed 
and that materials, computers, and data are all recovered from the staff member when a 
member of an organization leaves. Exit interviews are an HR process, job rotation helps to 
prevent an individual from conducting fraudulent activities over time, and governance helps 
to manage and maintain data by establishing high- level control over the processes, proce-
dures, and classification of the data an organization uses.330 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
178. B. Playbooks provide detailed, step- by- step instructions for how to address specific topics 
like denial- of- service attacks. Standards describe the settings or requirements that the orga-
nization wishes to use. Regulations are law and are not set by the organization, and guide-
lines provide advice to organizations seeking to comply with the policy and standards.
179. C. Risk trend analysis shows the change in risks over time, allowing senior leadership 
to quickly and easily understand where risks are being addressed and where they may 
be increasing or not getting the attention they need. Ad hoc reports are used when risk 
information is needed in specific areas, typically in response to specific needs. Risk regis-
ters list an organization’s risks in detail and are not a quick, visual tool. Risk event reports 
detail specific events related to risks.
180. B. Third- party assessments of an organization’s efforts to meet ISO standards is an example 
of vendor assessment. Internal audit would leverage internal staff to perform an audit, vul-
nerability scans use technical tools to identify vulnerabilities, and data inventories identify 
data and its locations and uses.
181. B. Vendors often ask that customers work with them to preschedule the testing so that 
they are aware of it. They typically do not place limitations on whether customers or third 
parties conduct the testing, and after- the- fact notification instead of prior notification is not 
a typical requirement.
182. B. The IP address of the recipient is not a common way of identifying phishing emails. 
The source system, domain, or IP may indicate a malicious sender, however! Phishing often 
focuses on creating a false sense of urgency, uses encrypted and password- protected files to 
bypass filters, and may claim there is a problem with your password.
183. D. Operational security is the practice of educating users on the importance of protecting 
sensitive information, including security practices, configurations, and other details. Aware-
ness training is a broad term describing all elements of security awareness. Social engi-
neering is used by attackers to leverage human behaviors and practices for their own gain. 
Insider threats are threats created by those inside the organization.
184. D. An organization operating in the European Union (EU) and selling in multiple coun-
tries means that the company needs to assess legal implications on local, national, and 
global levels.
185. C. Conflicts of interest occur when an organization has a competing interest that could 
influence their behavior in a way that is not aligned with the best interest of a customer. 
Insider threats occur because an insider creates a problem or threat, either on purpose or 
inadvertently. MOU and SOW violations are both contractual violations and could be con-
flicts of interest but are not limited to that.
186. D. Decentralized governance allows individual business units to manage themselves rather 
than central organizations doing so. There is no board or committee described in the 
question.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  331
187. A. The Treasury Department is a government entity, making this governance government 
entity–based. Shareholders and boards may play a role, but not via the Treasury 
Department. Centralized governance occurs inside the organization, not from an 
external entity.
188. C. Requesting evidence of internal audits and then assessing that evidence is the best option 
Sandra has. While a right- to- audit clause can be important in contracts, it would only be 
useful after the contract is signed, not prior to engagement. Supply chain analysis can be 
useful in specific circumstances, but nothing in the question indicates specific supply chain 
requirements or concerns. Due diligence is performed, not stated.
189. B. Policy handbooks are used to provide information about high- level security practices 
and goals. Audit reports may not be broadly available in an organization, runbooks are 
detailed how- to guides for processes or tasks, and user awareness training focuses on secu-
rity awareness rather than high- level goals and policies.
190. B. Awareness training remains the best protection against social engineering aimed at 
individual staff members. While awareness won’t stop all attacks, protecting individuals 
requires them to be trained on a regular basis. Endpoint detection and response (EDR) and 
next- generation firewall (NGFW) are both technical tools that cannot stop social engi-
neering directly, and security policies help the organization establish their approach to secu-
rity but won’t stop individual responses to social engineering directly.
191. A. Examinations are simpler, typically smaller in scope, and less costly than an audit. Both 
help provide assurance, but the standards applied are different.
192. D. The first step in developing security training programs is to determine what risks and 
threats the organization faces. Once those are understood, an appropriate program can 
be created, including obtaining a budget, determining how training will be presented, and 
ensuring that regulatory requirements, if any, are met.
193. B. Internal governance committees do not typically include external entities like regulators. 
Subject matter experts (SMEs), management, and counsel are all commonly members of 
security governance committees.
194. D. Global, national, and local regulations may impact Dana’s security policy, but corpo-
rations do not set regulations. Instead, they will influence the policy through contractual 
obligations.
195. C. Feedback on policies from staff, integrating new and changed regulations, and vali-
dating reports from security tools are all common elements used to update security policies. 
Nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) seek to keep data secure through contractual obligations 
and are not a typical element in policy updates.
196. C. A MOA, or memorandum of agreement, is a formal document that outlines the terms 
and details of an agreement between two organizations, including the roles and responsibil-
ities each will have. A SOW, or statement of work, describes the specific work that will be 
under a master services agreement for an engagement. Service level agreements (SLAs) are 332 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
written contracts that specify the conditions of service that will be provided by the vendor 
and the remedies available to the customer if the vendor fails to meet the SLA. Business 
partners agreements (BPAs) are used when organizations agree to do business with each 
other in a partnership.
197. B. Companies commonly send questionnaires to potential vendors to gather information 
about security practices prior to acquiring their products or engaging their services. This is 
a simpler method than requiring audits or penetration tests, and OSINT will not provide 
organizational answers about practices in most cases.
198. A. External reporting for compliance is most often driven by the need to meet regulations 
or contractual obligations. Audit assesses compliance rather than driving reporting, board 
reporting is considered internal, and KPIs are typically internal measures.
199. B. Automated compliance monitoring is a key tool when organizations want to ensure 
they are consistently meeting compliance targets. Annual audits do not ensure compliance 
during the year, whether they are internal or external. Compliance KPIs give organizations 
compliance targets and measures, but without underlying tools they are simply a way to 
know the state of compliance when they are checked or updated.
200. C. Mistakes like this are classified as unintentional anomalous behavior. Risky and unex-
pected behaviors are the other two classifications that are part of the Security+ exam out-
line. Insider attacks or threats are intentional or unintentional malicious activity, which 
mistyping a password is not an example of.
201. D. NIST no longer recommends requiring password changes on a regular basis, and instead 
suggests that passwords only be changed when necessary. This helps to prevent password 
reuse and avoids influencing users to slightly modify passwords. Disabling MFA, reusing 
passwords, and using passwords hints are all practices that should be avoided.
202. B. Organizations often use multiple formats for awareness training to address learning 
preferences and styles. Compliance requirements typically do not specify how awareness 
is accomplished, just that it has occurred and can be validated. Multiple modes of training 
tend to increase costs rather than decreasing them, and KPIs for security awareness look at 
impact, not modes.
203. D. Organizations typically establish KPIs (key performance indicators), which may be 
described in MSAs (master service agreements), SLAs (service level agreements), or SOWs 
(statements of work). These help to measure and monitor the vendor’s performance. 
MOUs are used to document how organizations want to work together, not to establish 
performance measures. Compliance audits and regulatory requirements are only part of 
performance management.
204. B. Staff should be trained to maintain situational awareness by keeping an eye on their 
environment and the behaviors of individuals around them. Insider threats are internal 
actors who undertake malicious actions. Social engineering uses human behaviors to con-
duct malicious activities, and unintentionally risky behavior is typically accidental threats 
caused by users.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  333
205. C. Data owners are typically the most senior data–related role in an organization and bear 
broad responsibility for the data, including oversight roles over stewards, controllers, and 
processors.
206. D. Deploying security cameras is not a common hybrid work environment option. Use of 
VPNs, secure Wi- Fi, and appropriate physical security are all common options.
207. C. Contracts, regulations, and licensing all drive external compliance reporting. Reputa-
tions may be damaged if organizations are not compliant, but it does not drive reporting.
208. A. Work orders (WO) and statements of work (SOWs) are used to document the specific 
tasks and deliverables that are performed under an MSA. SLAs, MOUs, and MOAs are not 
used for this purpose.
209. D. MTBF, or mean time between failure, describes the average time before a device will fail, 
or the average amount of time between failures of a system. A recovery time objective, or 
RTO, is set by organizations to describe how long restoring systems or services to normal 
function after a disruption can take. Mean time to repair, or MTTR, is the average time it 
takes to repair a system or device. A recovery point objective, or RPO, describes how much 
data can be lost in the event of an outage or issue.
210. C. ISO 27002 describes controls and helps select and implement controls while also 
providing guidance on developing information security management guidelines. ISO 27001 
establishes control objectives for 14 different categories, including things like HR security, 
asset management, and operations security. ISO 27701 focuses on managing privacy con-
trols, and ISO 31000 provides guidelines for risk management.
211. A. Physical security standards set requirements for physical security controls like fences, 
locks, doors, and cameras. Access control policies may be logical or physical control–based, 
but fence height is not an access control. Business continuity and onboarding don’t impact 
fence height, nor do they rely on it.
212. C. Boards are typically elected by shareholders. Employees, the CEO, and non- shareholders 
typically do not have the ability to elect or name members of the board.
213. B. Until he knows more details, Greg should classify this behavior as unexpected. Sending 
large volumes of data may be intentional, could be legitimate and thus not risky, and if it is 
intentional and part of business needs, would not be an insider threat.
214. C. Using existing tools to monitor for changes that would move the organization out of 
compliance is a common practice to help ensure ongoing compliance. Quarterly audits are 
point- in- time checks and won’t ensure ongoing compliance. Training helps to keep staff 
aware, but additional actions are required to ensure compliance, and attestation does not 
provide ongoing compliance, only a statement at a point in time.
215. C. After audits are acknowledged by management, the auditors will attest that the audit 
is complete and accurate based on their work and knowledge. Compliance and regulatory 
reporting may or may not happen depending on the reasons for the audit and the organiza-
tion’s needs. Once an audit is complete, further scans and other work may be conducted by 
the company but are not guaranteed.334 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
216. B. The employee at Latisha’s company can be considered an insider threat because they 
have provided access to a third party. Most organizations will terminate employees who do 
this due to violations of their acceptable use policy (AUP). The behavior is anomalous, but 
an insider threat is a better description. No social engineering is evident, nor is a nation- 
state actor described.
217. B. Using threat feeds to block phishing campaign URLs as they enter the feed is a proactive 
way to quickly respond. Web application firewalls (WAFs) are used to protect applications 
rather than as border devices to block outbound traffic. Manual blocks are commonly used 
but are slower to implement than threat feed–based responses. Conducting user awareness 
training is a best practice but doesn’t directly respond to campaigns.
218. B. Amanda has discovered an insider threat. Insider threats can be difficult to discover, as a 
malicious administrator or other privileged user will often have the ability to conceal their 
actions or may actually be the person tasked with hunting for threats like this! This is not a 
zero- day— no vulnerability was mentioned, there was no misconfiguration since this was an 
intentional action, and encryption is not mentioned or discussed.
219. A. Behavior like this would be considered risky, as clicking on unknown, unexpected links 
is a common way to succumb to a phishing attack. Unexpected typically describes behavior 
that isn’t typical for the user, and we do now know if this user typically behaves this way. 
The Security+ exam outline doesn’t use irresponsible as a category, and the click was 
intentional.
220. B. Establishing a baseline for security awareness is important so that Ben can determine 
what, if any, impact a program is having. This will drive KPIs as well as influence which 
actions and steps are taken to evolve the program. Implementing a security program is 
recommended by many standards, but they don’t determine initial awareness state. Penetra-
tion tests can provide information about where issues lie but don’t provide a broad baseline 
assessment either.
221. B. Malicious tools like BadUSB can make a USB cable or drive look like a keyboard when 
they are plugged in. Malicious thumb drives have been used by penetration testers simply 
by dropping them in a parking lot near their intended target. A Trojan or a worm is a pos-
sibility, but the clue involving the keyboard would point to a USB device as the first place 
Naomi should look.
222. B. A common practice is to report suspicious messages to an internal security team so that 
they can take action on phishing and other potential security issues. Reporting to third 
parties will not provide the same visibility, nor will deleting the messages. Asking users to 
click on messages works against security best practices!
223. A. Establishing security awareness KPIs, including incident rates, training uptake, responses 
to security awareness surveys, and other measurable indicators, is both the broadest and 
most useful option listed. Third- party awareness audits are not a typical method for doing 
this, and conducting surveys and tracking incident rates are both actions that will be part of 
common awareness KPIs.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  335
224. B. Myles should be concerned about contractual impacts as part of his customer relation-
ships. Noncompliance with regulations is likely to make him unable to fulfill contracts or 
to be in violation of contractual terms that require his company to be in compliance. Fines, 
loss of license, and sanctions may also occur, but they are less directly impactful to cus-
tomers and are not guaranteed.
225. D. An enterprise password manager can help to make it easier to use appropriate pass-
words without requiring users to memorize them. This results in less reuse, stronger pass-
words, and the ability to manage them, including preventing password reuse. Biometrics, 
training, and adopting NIST password complexity and length standards will not have the 
same broad impact.
226. A. Risk matrices are often used to summarize risk registers for senior management. SLE 
and ALE reports are not common documents, although ALE and SLE reports are com-
monly used as part of quantitative risk assessment and reporting. Risk KPIs are used to 
track progress on risk management, not to provide a summary of a risk register.
227. B. Guidelines provide advice to organizations seeking to comply with policies and stan-
dards. Policies outline the principles and rules that guide the execution of security efforts 
throughout the enterprise. Standards provide mandatory requirements describing how an 
organization will carry out its information security policies.
