1. A. While all of these are best practices, moving the device’s administrative interface to a 
protected VLAN will provide the most significant improvement in security since there are no 
known issues or vulnerabilities at the moment. If there were, patching or disabling services 
would quickly move up the list.
2. B. Threat hunting is the process of searching for threats, often using IoCs, threat intelligence, 
technological tools, and expertise to identify threats that might impact an organization. IoC 
creation involves documenting and defining an indicator of compromise. Root cause analysis 
looks for the underlying cause of an issue or event, and eradication is the complete removal 
of a threat or artifacts of malicious activity.
3. A. The simplest way to ensure that APIs are only used by legitimate users is to require the 
use of authentication. API keys are one of the most frequently used methods for this. If an 
API key is lost or stolen, the key can be invalidated and reissued, and since API keys can be 
matched to usage, Cynthia’s company can also bill customers based on their usage patterns 
if they want to. A firewall or IP restrictions may be able to help, but they can be fragile; 
customer IP addresses may change. An intrusion prevention system (IPS) can detect and pre-
vent attacks, but legitimate usage would be hard to tell from those who are not customers 
using an IPS.
4. C. Greg can clone a legitimate Media Access Control (MAC) address if he can identify one 
on the network. Greg can do this by checking for a MAC label on some devices or by cap-
turing traffic on the network if he can physically access it.
5. B. Screened subnet designs use a firewall with three interfaces, one for the Internet or an 
untrusted network, one for a protected but front- facing network, and one for a shielded 
or protected network. ACLs (access control lists) use rules to control access. This design 
may use ACLs, but an ACL alone does not describe it. Binary firewalls were made up for 
this question, and while an NGFW may be multihomed, “multiroute” is not a term used to 
describe this design.284 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
6. B. The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) list has entries that describe and pro-
vide references to publicly known cybersecurity vulnerabilities. A CVE feed will provide 
updated information about new vulnerabilities and a useful index number to cross reference 
with other services.
7. A. This is an example of a false positive. A false positive can cause a vulnerability to show 
that was not actually there. This sometimes happens when a patch or fix is installed but the 
application does not change in a way that shows the change, and it has been an issue with 
updates where the version number is the primary check for a vulnerability. When a vulnera-
bility scanner sees a vulnerable version number but a patch has been installed that does not 
update it, a false positive report can occur. A false negative would report a patch or fix where 
there was actually a vulnerability. Automatic updates were not mentioned, nor was a specific 
Apache version.
8. B. All of these protocols are unsecure. FTP has been replaced by secure versions in some uses 
(SFTP/FTPS), whereas Telnet has been superseded by SSH in modern applications. RSH is 
outmoded and should be seen only on truly ancient systems. If you find a system or device 
exposing these protocols, you will need to dig in further to determine why they are exposed 
and how they can be protected if they must remain open for a legitimate reason.
9. B. OSINT, or open source intelligence, is intelligence information obtained from public 
sources like search engines, websites, domain name registrars, and a host of other loca-
tions. OPSEC, or operational security, refers to habits such as not disclosing unnecessary 
information. STIX is the Structured Threat Intelligence Exchange protocol, and IntCon was 
made up for this question.
10. A. Proprietary, or closed threat, intelligence is threat intelligence that is not openly avail-
able. OSINT, or open source threat intelligence, is freely available. ELINT is a military term 
for electronic and signals intelligence. Corporate threat intelligence was made up for this 
question.
11. C. Bug bounties are increasingly common and can be quite lucrative. Bug bounty websites 
match vulnerability researchers with organizations that are willing to pay for information 
about issues with their software or services. Ransoms are sometimes demanded by attackers, 
but this is not a ransom since it was voluntarily paid as part of a reward system. A zero- day 
disclosure happens when a vulnerability is disclosed and the organization has not been previ-
ously informed and allowed to fix the issue. Finally, you might feel like $10,000 is a payday, 
but the term is not used as a technical term and doesn’t appear on the exam.
12. C. A false negative occurs with a vulnerability scanning system when a scan is run and an 
issue that exists is not identified. This can be because of a configuration option, a firewall, or 
other security setting or because the vulnerability scanner is otherwise unable to detect the 
issue. A missing vulnerability update might be a concern if the problem did not specifically 
state that the definitions are fully up- to- date. Unless the vulnerability is so new that there 
is no definition, a missing update shouldn’t be the issue. Silent patching refers to a patching 
technique that does not show messages to users that a patch is occurring. A false positive 
would have caused a vulnerability to show that was not actually there. This sometimes hap-
pens when a patch or fix is installed but the application does not change in a way that shows 
the change.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  285
13. B. Threat hunting can involve a variety of activities such as intelligence fusion, combining 
multiple data sources and threat feeds, and reviewing advisories and bulletins to remain 
aware of the threat environment for your organization or industry. Incident response hap-
pens once an incident has occurred, penetration testing tests security from an attacker’s per -
spective, and vulnerability scanning seeks to identify vulnerabilities using testing through 
technical means like connecting to services or checking local version information.
14. C. Since Frank is using the cloud service provider’s web services, he will need to review the 
logs that they capture. If he has not configured them, he will need to do so, and he will then 
need a service or capability to analyze them for the types of traffic he is concerned about. 
Syslog and Apache logs are both found on a traditional web host, and they would be appro-
priate if Frank was running his own web servers in the infrastructure- as- a- service (IaaS) 
environment.
15. C. Although it may be tempting to immediately upgrade, reading and understanding the 
CVEs for a vulnerability is a good best practice. Once Charles understands the issue, he can 
then remediate it based on the recommendations for that specific problem. Disabling PHP 
or the web server would break the service, and in this case, only newer versions of PHP than 
5.4 have the patch Charles needs.
16. D. Although 80 and 443 are the most common HTTP ports, it is common practice to run 
additional web servers on port 8080 when a nonstandard port is needed. SSH would be 
expected to be on port 22, RDP on 3389, and MySQL on 3306.
17. C. A network device running SSH on port 22 and a web server on TCP port 443 is a very 
typical discovery when running a vulnerability scan. Without any demonstrated issues, Caro-
lyn should simply note that she saw those services. Telnet runs on port 21, an unencrypted 
web server will run on TCP 80 in most cases, and Windows file shares use a variety of ports, 
including TCP ports 135–139 and 445.
18. C. A test server should be identical to the production server. This can be used for functional 
testing as well as security testing, before deploying the application. The production server is 
the live server. A development server would be one the programmers use during development 
of a web application, and predeployment server is not a term typically used in the industry.
19. C. Staging environments, sometimes called preproduction environments, are typically used 
for final quality assurance (QA) and validation before code enters the production environ-
ment as part of a deployment pipeline. Staging environments closely mirror production, 
allowing realistic testing and validation to be done. Development and test environments are 
used to create the code and for testing while it is being developed.
20. C. Application programming interface (API) keys are frequently used to meet this need. 
An API key can be issued to an individual or organization, and then use of the API can be 
tracked to each API key. If the API key is compromised or abused, it can be revoked and a 
new API key can be issued. Firewall rules written to use public IP addresses can be fragile, 
since IP addresses may change or organizations may have a broad range of addresses that 
may be in use, making it hard to validate which systems or users are using the API. Creden-
tials, including passwords, are not as frequently used as API keys.286 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
21. A. Baseline configurations, per NIST 800- 53: “Baseline configurations serve as a basis 
for future builds, releases, and/or changes to information systems. Baseline configurations 
include information about information system components (e.g., standard software pack-
ages installed on workstations, notebook computers, servers, network components, or mobile 
devices; current version numbers and patch information on operating systems and applica-
tions; and configuration settings/parameters), network topology, and the logical placement 
of those components within the system architecture. Maintaining baseline configurations 
requires creating new baselines as organizational information systems change over time. 
Baseline configurations of information systems reflect the current enterprise architecture.”
22. A. Indexing encrypted files will mean that an unencrypted index is stored, potentially 
exposing the content of encrypted files. Disabling the indexing service for encrypted files 
helps to protect them. There is no denial- of- service scenario for this unless a vulnerability in 
the indexing service is discovered and none is mentioned. The service is not exposed via the 
network, and dark web access is not accomplished via indexing services.
23. D. OAuth is a common authorization service used for cloud services. It allows users to decide 
which websites or applications to entrust their information to without requiring them to 
give them the user’s password. OpenID is frequently paired with OAuth as the authentica-
tion layer. Kerberos is more frequently used for on- site authentication, and SAML is Security 
Assertion Markup Language.
24. A. Fingerprint reader systems are the most widely accepted biometric systems in common 
use for entry access and other purposes today. Facial recognition systems are increasingly in 
use and are also likely to be more accepted by user populations based on their broad deploy-
ment in phones, but they are not listed as an option. Both retina and iris scans are less likely 
to be accepted, whereas voice systems are both relatively uncommon and more disruptive for 
frequent usage.
25. C. Static codes are typically recorded in a secure location, but if they are not properly 
secured, or are otherwise exposed, they can be stolen. Brute- force attempts should be 
detected and prevented by backoff algorithms and other techniques that prevent attacks 
against multifactor authentication systems. Collisions exist with hashing algorithms, not with 
static multifactor codes, and clock mismatch issues occur for time- based one- time password 
(TOTP) codes.
26. C. The best answer from this list is DLP, or data loss prevention technology. DLP is designed 
to protect data from being exposed or leaking from a network using a variety of techniques 
and technology. Stateful firewalls are used to control which traffic is sent to or from a system, 
but will not detect sensitive data. OEM is an original equipment manufacturer, and security 
information and event management (SIEM) can help track events and incidents but will not 
directly protect data itself.
27. A. Social login is an example of a federated approach to using identities. The combination of 
identity providers and service providers, along with authorization management, is a key part 
of federation. AAA (authentication, authorization, and accounting) is typically associated 
with protocols like RADIUS. Privilege creep occurs as staff members change jobs and their 
privileges are not adjusted to only match their current role. IAM is a broader set of identity 
and access management practices. Although IAM may be involved in federated identity, this 
question does not directly describe IAM.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  287
28. A. Although it may seem like Charles has presented two factors, in fact he has only presented 
two types of things he knows along with his identity. To truly implement a multifactor envi-
ronment, he should use more than one of something you have, something you know, and 
something you are.
29. B. A site survey is the process of identifying where access points should be located for best 
coverage and identifying existing sources of RF interference, including preexisting wireless 
networks and other devices that may use the same radio frequency spectrum. By conducting 
a site survey, Naomi can guide the placement of her access points as well as create a channel 
design that will work best for her organization.
30. C. Mobile device management (MDM) suites often provide the ability to manage content 
on devices as well as applications. Using content management tools can allow Charlene to 
provision files, documents, and media to the devices that staff members in her organization 
are issued. Application management would be useful for apps. Remote wipe can remove data 
and applications from the device if it is lost or stolen, or an employee leaves the organization. 
Push notifications are useful when information needs to be provided to the device user.
31. C. In this scenario, Denny specifically needs to ensure that he stops the most malware. In 
situations like this, vendor diversity is the best way to detect more malware, and installing 
a different vendor’s antivirus (AV) package on servers like email servers and then installing 
a managed package for PCs will result in the most detections in almost all cases. Installing 
more than one AV package on the same system is rarely recommended, since this often 
causes performance issues and conflicts between the packages— in fact, at times AV packages 
have been known to detect other AV packages because of the deep hooks they place into the 
operating system to detect malicious activity!
32. C. The application includes input validation techniques that are used to ensure that unex-
pected or malicious input does not cause problems with the application. Input validation 
techniques will strip out control characters, validate data, and perform a variety of other 
actions to clean input before it is processed by the application or stored for future use. This 
validation may help prevent buffer overflows, but other techniques described here are not 
used for buffer overflow prevention. String injection is actually something this helps to pre-
vent, and schema validation looks at data to ensure that requests match a schema, but again 
this is a narrower description than the broad range of input validation occurring in the 
description.
33. A. WPA3 supports SAE, or simultaneous authentication of equals, providing a more secure 
way to authenticate that limits the potential for brute- force attacks and allows individuals 
to use different passwords. WPA is not as secure as WPA2, and WEP is the oldest, and least 
secure, wireless security protocol. WPA2 is not as secure as WPA3 but remains in use due to 
broad deployment.
34. B. The correct answer is to use a sandboxed environment to test the malware and determine 
its complete functionality. A sandboxed system could be an isolated virtual machine (VM) or 
an actual physical machine that is entirely isolated from the network. Leaving the malware 
on a production system is never the correct approach. You should test or analyze the mal-
ware to determine exactly what malware it is, allowing you to respond to the threat properly. 
A honeypot is used for luring and trapping attackers, not for testing malware.288 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
35. D. Isaac knows that trusting client systems to be secure is not a good idea, and thus ensuring 
that validation occurs on a trusted client is not an appropriate recommendation. Ensuring 
that validation occurs on a trusted server, that client data is validated, and that data types 
and ranges are reasonable are all good best practices for him to recommend.
36. C. Isaac can configure a geofence that defines his corporate buildings and campus. He can 
then set up a geofence policy that will only allow devices to work while they are inside that 
geofenced area. Patch management, IP filtering, and network restrictions are not suitable 
solutions for this.
37. A. Static code analysis can help identify business logic issues by leveraging expert knowledge 
and understanding of the business process and logic involved. Fuzzing is a technique whereby 
the tester intentionally enters incorrect values into input fields to see how the application 
will handle it but doesn’t directly test business logic. Baselining is the process of establishing 
security standards, and version control simply tracks changes in the code— it does not test 
the code.
38. B. Endpoint detection and response (EDR) focuses on identifying anomalies and issues, but it 
is not designed to be a malware analysis tool. Instead, the ability to search and explore data, 
identify suspicious activities, and coordinate responses is what makes up an EDR tool.
39. A. Mandatory access control (MAC) is the correct solution. It will not allow lower privileged 
users to even see the data at a higher privilege level. Discretionary access control (DAC) has 
each data owner configure their own security. Role- based access control (RBAC) could be 
configured to meet the needs, but it’s not the best solution for these requirements. Security 
Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is not an access control model.
40. B. An agent- based, preadmission system will provide greater insight into the configuration of 
the system using the agent, and using a preadmission model will allow the system configura-
tion to be tested before the system is allowed to connect to the network. Agentless NAC uses 
scanning and/or network inventory techniques and will typically not have as deep a level of 
insight into the configuration and software versions running on a system. Postadmission sys-
tems make enforcement decisions based on what users do after they gain admission to a net-
work, rather than prior to gaining admission, allowing you to quickly rule out two of these 
options.
41. C. CYOD, or choose your own device, allows users to choose a device that is corporate 
owned and paid for. Choices may be limited to set of devices, or users may be allowed to 
choose essentially any device depending on the organization’s deployment decisions. BYOD 
allows users to bring their own device, whereas COPE, or corporate- owned, personally 
enabled, provides devices to users that they can then use for personal use. VDI uses a virtual 
desktop infrastructure as an access layer for any security model where specialized needs or 
security requirements may require access to remote desktop or application services.
42. C. If Claire is using Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) to manage and monitor 
her network devices, she should make sure she is using SNMPv3 and that it is properly con-
figured. SNMPv3 can provide information about the status and configuration of her network 
devices. Remote Authentication Dial- In User Service (RADIUS) might be used to authenticate 
to the network, but Transport Layer Security (TLS) and SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) 
are not specifically used for the purposes described.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  289
43. B. Containerization will allow Eric’s company’s tools and data to be run inside of an 
application- based container, isolating the data and programs from the self- controlled bring 
your own device (BYOD) devices. Storage segmentation can be helpful, but the operating 
system itself as well as the applications would remain a concern. Eric should recommend 
full- device encryption (FDE) as a security best practice, but encrypting the container and the 
data it contains can provide a reasonable security layer even if the device itself is not fully 
encrypted. Remote wipe is helpful if devices are lost or stolen, but the end user may not be 
okay with having the entire device wiped, and there are ways to work around remote wipes, 
including blocking cellular and Wi- Fi signals.
44. B. Data loss prevention (DLP) tools allow sensitive data to be tagged and monitored so that 
if a user attempts to send it, they will be notified, administrators will be informed, and if 
necessary, the data can be protected using encryption or other protection methods before it is 
sent. Full- disk encryption (FDE) would protect data at rest, and S/MIME and POP3S would 
protect mail being retrieved from a server but would not prevent the SSNs from being sent.
45. A. Attribute- based access control (ABAC) looks at a group of attributes, in addition to the 
login username and password, to make decisions about whether or not to grant access. One 
of the attributes examined is the location of the person. Since the users in this company travel 
frequently, they will often be at new locations, and that might cause ABAC to reject their log-
ins. Wrong passwords can certainly prevent login, but are not specific to ABAC. ABAC does 
not prevent remote access, and a firewall can be configured to allow, or prohibit, any traffic 
you wish.
46. B. Single sign- on (SSO) is designed specifically to address this risk and would be the most 
helpful. Users have only a single logon to remember; thus, they have no need to write down 
the password. OAuth (Open Authorization) is an open standard for token- based authenti-
cation and authorization on the Internet. It does not eliminate the use or need for multiple 
passwords. Multifactor authentication helps prevent risks due to lost passwords, but does 
not remove the need for multiple passwords by itself. Security Assertion Markup Language 
(SAML) and Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) do not stop users from needing 
to remember multiple passwords.
47. D. Rule- based access control applies a set of rules to an access request. Based on the applica-
tion of the rules, the user may be given access to a specific resource that they were not explic-
itly granted permission to. MAC, DAC, and role- based access control wouldn’t give a user 
access unless that user has already been explicitly given that access.
48. D. Both the Windows and Linux filesystems work based on a discretionary access control 
scheme where file and directory owners can determine who can access, change, or other -
wise work with files under their control. Role- based access controls systems determine rights 
based on roles that are assigned to users. Rule- based access control systems use a series of 
rules to determine which actions can occur, and mandatory access control systems enforce 
control at the operating system level.
49. A. Restricting each faculty account so that it is only usable when that particular faculty 
member is typically on campus will prevent someone from logging in with that account after 
hours, even if they have the password. Usage auditing may detect misuse of accounts but will 
not prevent it. Longer passwords are effective security, but a longer password can still be 
stolen. Credential management is always a good idea, but it won’t address this specific issue.290 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
50. C. Password complexity requires that passwords have a mixture of uppercase letters, 
lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters. This would be the best approach to correct 
the problem described in the question. Longer passwords are a good security measure but 
will not correct the issue presented here. Changing passwords won’t make those passwords 
any stronger, and SSO will have no effect on the strength of passwords.
51. B. Mandatory access control (MAC) is based on documented security levels associated with 
the information being accessed. Role- based access control (RBAC) is based on the role the 
user is placed in. Discretionary access control (DAC) lets the data owner set access control. 
BAC is not an access control model.
52. A. Discretionary access control (DAC) allows data owners to assign permissions. Role- based 
access control (RBAC) assigns access based on the role the user is in. Mandatory access con-
trol (MAC) is stricter and enforces control at the OS level. Attribute- cased access control 
(ABAC) considers various attributes such as location, time, and computer in addition to user -
name and password.
53. A. OS hardening is the process of securing an operating system by patching, updating, and 
configuring the operating system to be secure. Configuration management is the ongoing 
process of managing configurations for systems, rather than this initial security step. Both 
security uplift and endpoint lockdown were made up for this question.
54. D. Secure Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAPS) uses port 636 by default. DNS 
uses port 53, LDAP uses 389, and secure HTTP uses port 443.
55. B. Role- based access control (RBAC) grants permissions based on the user’s position within 
the organization. Mandatory access control (MAC) uses security classifications to grant 
permissions. Discretionary access control (DAC) allows data owners to set permissions. 
Attribute- based access control (ABAC) considers various attributes such as location, time, 
and computer, in addition to username and password.
56. A. Security groups are a virtual firewall for instances, allowing rules to be applied to traffic 
between instances. Dynamic resource allocation is a concept that allows resources to be 
applied as they are needed, including scaling up and down infrastructure and systems on the 
fly. Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoints are a way to connect to services inside of a cloud 
provider without an Internet gateway. Finally, instance awareness is a concept that means 
that tools know about the differences between instances, rather than treating each instance 
in a scaling group as the same. This can be important during incident response processes and 
security monitoring for scaled groups, where resources may all appear identical without in-
stance awareness.
57. B. If the system maintains a password history, that will prevent any user from reusing an old 
password. Password complexity and length are common security settings but would not pre-
vent the behavior described. Multifactor authentication helps prevent brute- force attacks and 
reduces the potential impact of stolen passwords but would not help with this scenario.
58. A. Setting login time restrictions is a common method to control when a system can be used. 
Turning off a system does not prevent it from being turned back on. Guards are expensive 
compared to a simple technical control limiting logins, and disabling remote login does not 
prevent local login.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  291
59. A. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is an XML- based, open standard format 
for exchanging authentication and authorization data between parties. OAuth allows an end 
user’s account information to be used by third- party services, without exposing the user’s 
password. RADIUS is a remote access protocol. New Technology LAN Manager (NTLM) is 
not XML- based.
60. A. Backups are considered to be the least volatile type of storage since they change at a 
much slower pace and, in fact, may be intentionally retained for long periods of time without 
changing. In this list, CPU cache will change the most frequently, then RAM, then local disk 
contents.
61. C. After eradication of the issue has been completed, recovery can begin. Recovery can 
include restoration of services and a return to normal operations.
62. C. The MITRE ATT&CK framework focuses on techniques and tactics. CIS Benchmarks 
are security configuration baselines, the Dark Web Analysis Project was made up for this 
question, and the CVSS standard is a vulnerability scoring system and is not a useful frame-
work for analyzing malware and attacks.
63. D. To properly preserve the system, Ted needs to ensure that it does not change. Turning 
off the system will cause anything in memory to be lost, which may be needed for the inves-
tigation. Removing the drive while a system is running can cause data to be lost. Instead, 
live- imaging the machine and its memory may be required. Allowing users to continue to use 
a machine will result in changes, which can also damage Ted’s ability to perform a forensic 
investigation.
64. D. Windows does not log network traffic at a level of granularity that will show if a file has 
been uploaded. Basic traffic statistics can be captured, but without additional sensors and 
information- gathering capabilities, Jessica will not be able to determine if files are sent from 
a Windows system.
65. C. The chain of custody in forensic activities tracks who has a device, data, or other forensic 
artifact at any time, when transfers occur, who performed analysis, and where the item, 
system, or device goes when the forensic process is done. Evidence logs may be maintained by 
law enforcement to track evidence that is gathered. Paper trail and digital footprint are not 
technical terms used for digital forensics.
66. B. The - c flag for grep counts the number of occurrences for a given string in a file. The 
- n flag shows the matched lines and line numbers. Even if you’re not sure about which flag 
is which, the syntax should help on a question like this. When using grep, the pattern comes 
before the filename, allowing you to rule out two of the options right away.
67. B. Network flows using NetFlow or sFlow would provide the information that Eric wants, 
with details of how much traffic was used, when, and where traffic was directed. A firewall 
or data loss prevention (DLP) would not show the bandwidth detail, although a firewall may 
show the connection information for events. Packetflow was made up for this question and is 
not a technology used for this purpose.292 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
68. D. Hashing using MD5 or SHA1 is commonly used to validate that a forensic image matches 
the original drive. Many forensic duplicators automatically generate a hash of both drives 
when they complete the imaging process to ensure that there is a documentation chain for the 
forensic artifacts. A third image may be useful but does not validate this. Directory listings 
do not prove that drives match, and photos, though useful to document the drives and serial 
numbers, do not validate the contents of the drives.
69. B. Nessus is a popular vulnerability scanning tool. It is not a fuzzer, web application firewall 
(WAF), or protocol analyzer.
70. D. Red Hat stores authentication log information in /var/log/secure instead of /var/ 
log/auth.log used by Debian and Ubuntu systems. Knowing the differences between the 
major distributions can help speed up your forensic and incident investigations, and consis-
tency is one of the reasons that organizations often select a single Linux distribution for their 
infrastructure whenever it is possible to do so.
71. C. Cuckoo, or Cuckoo Sandbox, is a malware analysis sandbox that will safely run malware 
and then analyze and report on its behavior. strings is a command- line tool that retrieves 
strings from binary data. scanless is a tool described as a port scraper, which retrieves port 
information without running a port scan by using websites and services to run the scan for 
you. Sn1per is a pen test framework.
72. C. Metadata viewing tools will allow Lucca to view the metadata that is embedded in the file 
itself. Metadata is not downloaded separately or available via the hash for a JPEG file.
73. B. When artifacts are acquired as part of an investigation, they should be logged and docu-
mented as part of the evidence related to the investigation. Artifacts could include a piece of 
paper with passwords on it, tools or technology related to an exploit or attack, smartcards, 
or any other element of an investigation.
74. D. Forensic reports should include appropriate technical detail. Analysis of a system does not 
include a picture of the person from whom the system was acquired.
75. C. The browser cache, history, and session information will all contain information from 
recently visited sites. Bookmarks may indicate sites that a user has visited at some point, but 
a bookmark can be added without visiting a site at all.
76. C. Organizations define retention policies for different data types and systems. Many organi-
zations use 30- , 45- , 90- , 180- , or 365- day retention policies, with some information required 
to be kept longer due to law or compliance reasons. Susan’s organization may keep logs for 
as little as 30 days depending on storage limitations and business needs. Data classification 
policies typically impact how data is secured and handled. Backup policies determine how 
long backups are retained and rotated and may have an impact on data if the logs are backed 
up, but backing up logs are a less common practice due to the space they take up versus the 
value of having logs backed up. Legal hold practices are common, but policies are less typi-
cally defined for legal holds since requirements are set by law.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  293
77. C. A quarantine process or setting will preserve malicious or dangerous files and programs 
without allowing them to run. This allows defenders to retrieve them for further analysis as 
well as to return them to use if they are determined not to be malicious, or if the malicious 
components can be removed from needed files. Purging, deep- freezing, and retention are not 
terms used to describe this behavior or setting.
78. C. Chuck should recommend a mobile device management (MDM) system to ensure that 
organizational devices can be managed and protected in the future. Data loss prevention 
(DLP) will not stop a lost phone from being a potential leak of data, isolating the phones is 
not a realistic scenario for devices that will actually be used, nor is containment because the 
phone is out of the organization’s control once lost.
79. B. The most important action Charles can take while working with his forensic artifacts to 
provide nonrepudiation is to digitally sign the artifacts and information that he is creating in 
his evidence records. Encrypting the output will ensure its confidentiality but will not provide 
nonrepudiation by itself. MD5 checksums for images are commonly gathered but must then 
be signed so that they can be validated to ensure they have not been modified.
80. A. The best way to capture a virtual machine from a running hypervisor is usually to use the 
built- in tools to obtain a snapshot of the system. Imaging tools are not typically capable of 
capturing machine state, and dd is not designed to capture VMs. Removing a server’s drives 
can be challenging due to possible RAID and other specific server configuration items, and 
doing so might impact all other running VMs and services on the system.
81. A. Law enforcement is not typically part of organizational incident response teams, but 
incident response teams often maintain a relationship with local law enforcement officers. 
Security analysts, management, and communication staff as well as technical experts are all 
commonly part of a core incident response team.
82. A. Even if you’re not familiar with iptables, you can read through these rules and guess 
which rule includes the right details. DROP makes sense for a block, and you should know 
that SSH will be a TCP service on port 22.
83. A. A packet capture will show attempts to connect to the service and will help Maria deter -
mine if there is unexpected traffic to the system. A network firewall could stop the traffic, 
but analyzing the actual traffic itself is best done with a packet capture. Logs may be useful 
as part of the analysis, but again, packet captures will provide more information. A forensic 
disk image is not useful for reviewing network traffic.
84. A. Incident response plans don’t stop incidents from occurring, but they do help responders 
react appropriately and prepare the organization for incidents, and may be required for legal 
or compliance reasons.
85. D. Degaussing a drive uses strong magnetic fields to wipe it and is the least likely to result in 
recoverable data. Deleted files can often be recovered because only the file index information 
will be removed until that space is needed and is overwritten. Quick formats work in a sim-
ilar way and will leave remnant data, and files that are overwritten by smaller files will also 
leave fragments of data that can be recovered and analyzed.294 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
86. D. Henry’s most likely use for the video is to document the forensic process, part of the chain 
of custody and provenance of the forensic data he acquires. The order of volatility helps 
determine what devices or drives he would image first. There is no crime being committed, 
so establishing guilt is not relevant to this scenario, and the video will not ensure data is pre-
served on a drive during a forensic process.
87. B. IPSec is not a tool used to capture network flows. sFlow, NetFlow, and IPFIX are all used 
to capture network flow information, which will provide the information Charlene needs.
88. B. PRTG and Cacti are both network monitoring tools that can provide bandwidth moni-
toring information. Bandwidth monitors can help identify exfiltration, heavy and abnormal 
bandwidth usage, and other information that can be helpful for both incident identification 
and incident investigations. If you encounter a question like this on the exam, even if 
you’re not familiar with either tool, you can use your knowledge of what Simple Network 
Management Protocol (SNMP) is used for to identify which of the categories is most likely 
correct.
89. A. A variety of configuration changes could be pushed to mobile devices to help: setting 
passcodes, enabling full- disk encryption (FDE) on mobile devices via organizationally 
deployed mobile device management (MDM), or even preventing some sensitive files from 
being downloaded or kept on those devices could all help. Firewall rules, data loss preven-
tion (DLP) rules, and URL filters will not prevent a stolen device from being accessed and the 
data being exposed.
90. B. The Security+ exam outline talks about seven incident response process steps: Preparation, 
Detection, Analysis, Containment, Eradication, Recovery, and Lessons Learned.
91. C. Jill wants the least possible changes to occur on the system, so she should instruct the user 
to not save any files or make any changes. Rebooting the system will not create a memory 
dump, and may cause new files to be written or changed if patches were waiting to install 
or other changes are set to occur during a reboot. Turning off Secure Delete or making other 
changes will not impact the files that were deleted prior to that setting change.
92. B. The IR process used for the Security+ exam outline is Preparation, Detection, Analysis, 
Containment, Eradication, Recovery, and Lessons Learned. Veronica should move into the 
lessons learned phase.
93. C. Quick formatting merely deletes file indexes rather than removing and overwriting files, 
making it inappropriate for sanitization. Physical destruction will ensure that the data is not 
readable, as will degaussing and zero wiping.
94. D. Microsoft Office places information like the name of the creator of the file, editors, 
creation and change dates, and other useful information in the file metadata that is stored in 
each Office document. Bart can simply open the Office document to review this information, 
or he can use a forensic or file metadata tool to review it. Filenames may contain the creator’s 
name, but this would only be if the creator included it. Microsoft Office does not create or 
maintain a log, and the application log for Windows does not contain this information.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  295
95. B. Windows Defender Firewall operates on a per- application model and can filter traffic 
based on whether the system is on a trusted private network or a public network. Nathaniel 
should allow Chrome by name in the firewall, which will allow it to send traffic without 
needing to specify ports or protocols.
96. B. Building a timeline, particularly from multiple systems, relies on accurately set system 
clocks or adding a manually configured offset. Disk hashing and acquisition does not need 
an accurate system clock, and file metadata can be reviewed even without an accurate 
clock, although accurate clock information or knowing the offset can be useful for analysis.
97. B. Data breach notification laws often build in a maximum length of time that can pass 
before notification is required. They also often include a threshold for notification, with a 
maximum number of exposed individuals before the state or other authorities must be noti-
fied. They do not include a maximum number of individuals who can be notified, nor do 
they typically have specific requirements about police involvement in forensic investigations 
or certification types or levels.
98. C. A data loss prevention (DLP) tool that can scan and review emails for SSN style data is 
the most effective tool listed here. Naomi may want to set the tool to block all emails with 
potential SSNs, and then review those emails manually to ensure that no further emails 
leave while allowing legitimate emails to pass through. An intrusion detection system (IDS) 
might look tempting as an answer, but an IDS can only detect, not stop, the traffic, which 
would allow the SSNs to exit the organization. Antimalware and firewalls will not stop this 
type of event.
99. C. Email headers contain a significant amount of metadata, including where the email was 
sent from. The from: field lists a sender but does not indicate where the email was actually 
sent from. The to: field lists who the email was sent to, and footers are not used to store this 
information for email.
100. C. NXLog is a log collection and centralization tool. IPFIX, NetFlow, and sFlow all gather 
data about network traffic, including source, destination, port, protocol, and amount of 
data sent to be collected.
101. D. SQL injection (SQLi) attempts are sent as HTTP or HTTPS requests to a web server, 
meaning that Valerie will be able to see the attacks in the web server log. Domain Name 
System (DNS) logs, if available, will not show these. Auth logs show logins, not web or 
SQL Server queries or requests. Unlike Windows, there is no security log file for Linux, 
although there is a secure log for some systems.
102. C. A legal hold notice will inform the company that they must preserve and protect 
information related to the case. None of the other items are terms used in this process.
103. B. A quarantine setting will place a malicious or suspect file in a safe location and will 
keep it there until a set timeframe has passed or until an administrator takes action to deal 
with it. This can allow you to further analyze the file or to restore it if it was an incorrect 
identification or if the file is needed for another purpose. Containment is used to limit the 
extent of an incident or attack, isolation keeps a system or device from connecting to or 
accessing others, and deleting a file wouldn’t keep it around.296 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
104. C. The recovery phase often involves adding firewall rules and patching systems in addition 
to rebuilding systems. Although preparation may involve configuring firewall rules or reg-
ular patching, it does not do so in response to an incident. Detection attempts to identify 
events and issues, and analysis involves investigating the events.
105. C. Tim should look at the trend information for malware detections to check to see if 
there are more infections being detected than during recent weeks. This can be a useful 
indicator of a change, due to a new malware technique or package; a successful attack that 
has resulted in staff members clicking malicious links or opening malicious emails; or other 
paths into the organization. Tim could then check with users whose systems reported the 
malware to see what had occurred. Alerts might show the infections but would not show 
the data over time as easily as trends. Sensors will show individual places data is gathered, 
and bandwidth dashboards can show useful information about which systems are using 
more or less bandwidth, but the trends dashboard remains the right place for Tim to look 
in this situation.
106. B. The Center for Internet Security (CIS) benchmarks provide recommendations for how 
to secure an operating system, application, or other covered technology. Michelle will find 
Windows- specific security configuration guidelines and techniques.
107. C. A single point of failure (SPOF) is a single weakness that can bring down an entire 
system and prevent it from working. Cloud computing allows the delivery of hosted service 
over the Internet. Load balancing spreads traffic or other load between multiple systems 
or servers. Virtualization uses a system to host virtual machines that share the underlying 
resources such as RAM, hard drive, and CPU.
108. C. Asset management policies typically include all stages of an asset’s life cycle, and 
asset tags like those described are used to track assets in many organizations. Change 
management, incident response, and acceptable use policies do not require asset tagging.
109. D. The diagram shows a fully redundant internal network with pairs of firewalls, routers, 
and core switches, but with a single connection to the Internet. This means that Megan 
should consider how her organization would connect to the outside world if that link was 
severed or disrupted. There is no indication whether this is a wired or wireless link, and the 
image does not show a redundant link.
110. B. Support tools typically require additional steps or integrations to take action on a ticket 
and a human is often involved to ensure that legitimate emails do not result in the creation 
of unwanted rules or responses. Juan’s team could use the ticketing system to track whether 
emails are dealt with, to correlate them, and potentially to trigger additional actions.
111. D. The Sender Policy Framework (SPF) lists IP addresses of systems allowed to send email 
in DNS TXT records for a domain. DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail) validates a 
domain’s identity using a public key pair, validating the authenticity of the sender. DMARC 
(domain- based message authentication, reporting, and conformance) controls how unau-
thenticated messages are handled by mailbox providers, including quarantining, rejecting, 
or rejecting messages. STP is not an email security framework.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  297
112. D. The packet capture shows a high volume of SYN packets, indicating a potential SYN 
flood, a type of denial- of- service attack. There is no information to indicate SMTP traffic 
for a phishing campaign, nor is there HTTP traffic for SQL injection against an application. 
While SYN traffic is commonly seen when a connection is lost, this traffic is repeated at a 
rapid pace rather than a typical reconnection attempt.
113. D. Endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools combine behavior- based detection capa-
bilities with centralized dashboards and advanced response capabilities. Intrusion preven-
tion systems (IPSs) can detect network threats but aren’t well suited to detecting behaviors 
on endpoint systems. NAC (network access control) is used to limit who can connect to a 
network. Data loss prevention (DLP) systems monitor for data exfiltration as well as data 
that is sent both inadvertently and on purpose outside the organization that shouldn’t be.
114. C. Tabletop exercises involve teams sitting down to talk through an exercise. Teams don’t 
perform actions or even simulate them, third- party penetration testers are not reviewing 
their data, and no actual fail overs occur.
115. B. Root cause analysis is a process used to determine the underlying cause of an issue such 
as why attackers were able to successfully take down Michelle’s web server cluster. Threat 
hunting is used to proactively look for threats using a variety of techniques, including 
OSINT and leveraging indicators of compromise. Lessons learned processes look for take-
aways from events and incidents to allow organizations to improve their processes and 
procedures. Recovery is part of the incident response process but focuses on restoring the 
organization to normal operation.
116. D. Jailbreaking is not a typical hardening process and is instead used to bypass device secu-
rity to allow additional control of the device. While individuals may jailbreak devices, orga-
nizations rarely permit it. The NSA provides a guide to mobile device security practices at 
https://media.defense.gov/2021/Sep/16/2002855921/- 1/- 1/0/MOBILE_ 
DEVICE_BEST_PRACTICES_FINAL_V3%20- %20COPY.PDF, which includes many prac-
tices such as disabling Bluetooth, using strong passwords, and keeping device software 
up- to- date.
117. C. WPA3 Enterprise is the most secure option. It provides for central authentication as well 
as encryption. WPA4 has not yet been released. WPA2 and WPA3 Personal are not centrally 
managed, giving Lucca’s organization less control over who connects.
118. B. The EF (exposure factor) for an asset is the value of the asset that would be lost in the 
event of a loss or damage scenario. Depreciation is a financial term that writes down the 
cost of a capital item over a given lifespan; annualized loss expectancy is a risk- related 
term, not annual loss event; and asset valuation adjustment was made up for this question.
119. B. Derek’s team needs to carefully consider what alerts should be sent, why, and how often. 
That will require alert tuning. Simply setting alert thresholds may miss critical events, dis-
abling alerts will not achieve the goal of enabling this type of notification, and moving the 
alerts to email will typically result in a less timely response.298 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
120. B. Jill can build a signature if she has an example of the SQL code. IPS signatures require 
data to match against potential attack traffic. A source IP address would only match 
specific potential attackers instead of the many different potential sources. A hash of the 
attack would detect one specific version of the attack, but a SQL injection (SQLi) attack 
may have multiple versions or configurations. The source port will vary with each request 
and isn’t useful in most cases.
121. A. While all of these are potential problems, Jack’s account should not be provisioned to 
match Erin. Instead, provisioning based on role is an IAM best practice. Jack’s seniority, the 
staff he works with, and file access should all be determined by his role.
122. A. Hardware tokens provide the greatest security because they need to be physically  
present to be used. Application- based tokens are more secure than SMS in many cases 
because SMS can be redirected or accessed through SIM- swapping and other attacks. 
Extending password length does not provide a second factor and is the least secure of these 
options by far.
123. A. The lack of consistency could be addressed by enforcing baselines across the organiza-
tion. Gurvinder should emphasize this, then explain the other common benefits of security 
automation, including scaling in a secure manner, improving reaction time, automation’s 
impact as a workforce multiplier, efficiency, employee retention advantages, and the ability 
to more easily standardize infrastructure configurations.
124. C. The Five Why’s process is well suited to interviews because it asks “Why” each time an 
answer is provided to get to a root cause. The Five W’s are a common reference in journal-
ism to who, what, when, where, and why— not a root cause analysis tool. Fishbone dia-
grams are commonly used for RCA, but are not as useful for an interview process. They’re 
more likely to be used after the interview to see how answers and events fit together. Recur -
sion analysis is not an RCA process.
125. B. Amanda has conducted a simulation, or walk- through, where actual recovery actions 
are simulated to ensure that recovery plans will work as expected. A fail over test moves 
production to a backup environment like a hot site, and a plan review is just that— a review 
of the response plan. A tabletop exercise involves discussions about the scenario and what 
would be done without taking any actual action.
126. B. Legal holds require organizations and individuals to preserve data related to pending or 
active litigation, regardless of its normal data life cycle once the hold notice is received. This 
means that Liam needs to identify and preserve the data and that normal processes like 
wiping drives or reusing backup media may not be possible. It does not necessarily mean 
that Liam’s company must engage a lawyer to preserve the data, and law enforcement is not 
typically involved in legal holds.
127. A. OAuth is an open standard widely supported by cloud identity providers. Kerberos is 
used for internal use rather than for external integrations; LDAP is used for some services 
but is no longer a common choice for this type of integration with cloud service providers 
compared to options like OAuth, SAML, and OpenID- based integrations; and Active 
Directory is used by Microsoft but is not as interoperable.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  299
128. B. Attribute- based access control (ABAC) provides access based on attributes like location, 
age, rank, or other attributes of a user. Rule- based access control uses defined rules to make 
access decisions. Role- based access control uses a user’s role in an organization to make 
access control decisions, and mandatory access control (MAC) enforces access control using 
centralized control.
129. C. Security keys are commonly used for passwordless authentication since they can provide 
both a physical token and cryptographic login credentials that are unlocked using a pass-
word, fingerprint reader, or camera. A password manager does not provide this but does 
securely store and manage passwords. RFID cards are simply something you have, and bio-
metrics are typically not tokens— they’re data stored to match a user’s biometric signature.
130. B. Older, insecure services like chargen, daytime, echo, time, rsh, and telnet are all managed 
by inetd in Linux distributions. Disabling these services is a common item in security hard-
ening benchmarks like the CIS benchmarks. These services are not Windows services, they 
are not SQL- related, and disabling them is not a type of patching.
131. A. Bring your own device (BYOD) leaves the choice of device in the hands of the end user. 
Since the device is the end user’s device, it often means that the organization has less, if any, 
control over the device. Corporate- owned, personally enabled (COPE) allows users to use 
organizationally owned devices for their own use. Choose your own device (CYOD) lets 
users choose a device that the organization owns. COBO, or company- owned, business- 
only, is a model that only allows business use of business- provided devices.
132. D. The Secure Cookie attribute is intended to keep cookies secure in transit. That 
means that it requires secure cookies be sent only via HTTPS. It does not encrypt the cookie 
at rest, store it on the server instead of the remote system, nor does it remove the cookie 
after it has been used.
133. B. Code signing uses the signing organization or individual’s private key to sign a hash of 
the code. This allows the code to be verified using the organization’s or individual’s public 
key. Signing code does not involve encrypting it.
134. C. Without an inventory, organizations may misplace, lose, or even have devices stolen. 
That may result in data breaches or simply loss of assets. A hardware life cycle process is 
an operational concern; manufacturer support is typically tied to individual devices; and 
vulnerability scans are possible without an inventory, but Naomi may not know what the 
device itself is until she physically locates it.
135. C. Static analysis processes for code involve reviewing the source code itself. Dynamic anal-
ysis processes use running code. Agile is a project management framework, and internal 
review is not a term used to describe this.
136. A. Sites accessible using TOR are considered part of the dark web. Information- sharing 
organizations like ISACs share information in an industry vertical or among other organi-
zations that participate. Proprietary information is provided by vendors, typically as part of 
a contract or service. Threat feeds may be public or private and provide information about 
threats in a digestible format for use with security tools.300 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
137. A. A lessons learned session is commonly conducted at the end of an incident response 
process. Once eradication and recovery are complete, incident response processes are typ-
ically over and the response effort can be reviewed. The lessons learned are then leveraged 
as part of the preparation process to be ready for the next incident. That may involve more 
training, tabletop exercises, or additional detection methods.
138. A. The CVSS environmental score’s impact metric takes into account confidentiality, integ-
rity, and availability risks, with each rated between high, medium, and low levels. It is not a 
direct rating of network, disk, memory, severity, likelihood, probability, or cost.
139. D. The Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) is frequently used to allow for mon-
itoring and measurement of NIST 800- 53-based controls. SAML is used for authorization 
and authentication, and CVE and CVSS are used to identify and rank vulnerabilities.
140. A. WPA3 Enterprise uses Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and can use 128- , 192- , 
and 256- bit keys. It does not support 3DES, and both SHA- 1 and SHA- 256 are hashing 
algorithms.
141. A. Kerberos is one of a small number of commonly used AAA protocols for network 
devices. SAML and OpenID are more commonly used for federated services, and TKIP is an 
encryption method.
142. C. Vulnerability scanners are perfectly suited to this type of task and can be configured to 
specifically test the web servers that are part of the IoT devices to increase the speed of the 
scan. A WAF is used to protect web applications and servers, not to assess vulnerabilities 
and security issues. Pentesting can identify these problems but is typically not fast or scal-
able. Port scanners identify open ports and service but don’t identify vulnerabilities as effec-
tively as a dedicated vulnerability scanning tool will.
143. B. DMARC, or Domain- based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance, 
controls how unauthenticated messages are handled by mailbox providers, including 
quarantining, rejecting, or rejecting messages. SPF (Sender Policy Framework) lists IP 
addresses of systems allowed to send email in DNS TXT records for a domain. Domain-
Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) validates a domain’s identity using a public key pair, vali-
dating the authenticity of the sender. TLS (Transport Layer Security) is used to encrypt data 
in motion.
144. D. In most organization, Wayne’s next steps should be to document the exemption due to 
the criticality of the server and its extenuating circumstances. Removing the server from 
scans will prevent it from being effectively impacted by a denial- of- service attack each time 
a scan occurs, but this also means that compensating controls should be implemented if 
possible. Reporting the server as vulnerable and suggesting it be replaced does not reme-
diate the server or protect it, and will continue to allow it to fail based on future scans. Dis-
abling the device’s network connection will also cause a service outage. Insurance will not 
prevent service outages or protect the device.
145. B. Identity proofing is used to validate a user’s claim to an identity. Here, Valentine’s 
company uses information that only a legitimate owner of that identity should have 
easy access to. Provisioning is the process of creating an account and providing it with Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  301
appropriate resources and rights. Deprovisioning removes accounts and rights. Social iden-
tity is the process of using existing user accounts like those found through Facebook or 
Google to create accounts for existing users at other organizations like Valentine’s.
146. C. Organizations often immediately rescan a system after patching to ensure that the 
patching worked. While this isn’t an absolutely certain means of validating the patch, it 
helps to quickly ensure that patching was effective across many machines. Noting false pos-
itives may occur if the patch was successful, but systems continue to show as vulnerable. 
Rebooting may be done but doesn’t necessarily validate the patching installation’s success, 
and performing an audit may be done but is a less common next step.
147. A. Third- party audit documentation is a common practice for organizations that want 
to attest to their customers that they have a secure environment. Rescanning systems and 
providing vulnerability scans is not a common practice, nor is allowing customers to con-
duct their own scans of production systems.
148. B. TCP port 1433 is the minimum port requirement for a Microsoft SQL server con-
nection. TCP 3389 is used for Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). TCP 8080 is a common 
alternate port for web servers, and TCP 139 and 445 are used for SMB connections.
149. A. Baselining is the process of establishing a standard for security. A change from the 
original baseline configuration is referred to as baseline deviation. Security evaluations or 
audits check security but don’t establish security standards. Hardening is the process of 
securing a given system, but it does not establish security standards. Normalization is the 
process of removing redundant entries from a database.
150. B. COPE, or company- owned, personally enabled, models allow staff to use organization-
ally owned devices for reasonable personal use. CYOD, or choose your own device, allows 
users to pick their company- owned device from a list of approved devices. COBO, or 
company- owned, business- only, is just that— users can only use the devices for business pur -
poses. BYOD asks users to bring their own device, often leaving organizations with limited 
or no control of the device.
151. B. Process auditing involves reviewing processes to identify unknown or unexpected 
processes. During incident response scenarios, this is often initially done via the Task Man-
ager. Dynamic analysis is a code review process that uses running code. CVSS matching 
was made up for this question, and vulnerability scanning tests open services and doesn’t 
involve the Task Manager.
152. B. Email security gateways are appliances or software virtual appliances that provide anti- 
spam, anti- phishing, and other email security–related services. They’re purpose- built to 
deliver exactly the capabilities that Ujama is looking for. A WAF (web application firewall) 
is used to protect web applications. DKIM and DMARC are both email security frame-
works, but they’re not implemented as appliances themselves.
153. D. A SIEM (security information and event management) tool is designed to aggregate, 
analyze, correlate, alert on, and report on log entries. MDM (mobile device management) is 
used to manage mobile devices, jump servers provide access from less secure zones to more 
secure zones, and SDN is software- defined networking.302 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
154. A. Leveraging automation and scripting to increase employee happiness and retention as 
well as improving efficiency and realizing time savings is a common strategy in situations 
like this. Deploying fewer devices only works if the organization needs fewer devices, base-
lines are most useful when paired with automation and scripting for deployment, and a 
physical endpoint device typically can’t be moved to the cloud.
155. B. Authenticated scans can identify vulnerabilities that are not visible to unauthenticated 
scans. Penetration testers may not be able to obtain access equivalent to authenticated 
scans, so an authenticated scan is more likely to provide detailed data. Port scans do not 
provide deep vulnerability data.
156. C. Quarantine and isolation are both commonly used in the containment phase of an 
incident to ensure that impacted systems are unable to impact other systems or parts of 
the organization. Files may also be quarantined to prevent further impact from malware. 
Detection and analysis typically do not involve quarantine and isolation, but quarantine 
and isolation may carry through into the eradication phase before systems are returned to 
normal operation.
157. C. Linux permissions are read left to right for user, group, and other. With r’s at each loca-
tion, this means everyone can read the contents of the directory. Only the user can write 
and execute files in the directory.
158. A. A set of rules that defines who can access the data has determined if Beena is granted 
access. Here, rules assess her role, the time of day, and the workstation’s status. This is not 
accomplished using a classification or clearance system like MAC uses, and it does not rely 
on just an attribute like Beena’s location or other information about her.
159. A. Trend analysis is commonly used as part of behavior- based detections, which can help 
identify new attacks. Signatures require knowledge of existing attacks to match signa-
tures. IP-  and port- based detection is useful for known attacks but not typically useful for 
unknown attacks.
160. D. Heatmaps are used to show signal strength and coverage, allowing organizations to 
identify areas where there may be poor coverage or where multiple signals may conflict. 
War walking (and war driving) are techniques used to map wireless access points to geo-
graphic locations. Spectrum analysis and SSID plots are not terms used for this type of 
activity.
161. C. The concept of least privilege is that only the minimum rights or privileges required to 
accomplish a role or task are provided. Zero trust requires continuous authentication and 
authorization, and least privilege is part of a zero trust environment, but zero trust goes 
beyond least privilege. Provisioning and deprovisioning are part of the account life cycle, 
and provisioning should respect the concept of least privilege.
162. D. Automation provides many advantages for the provisioning process, including 
improving consistency, decreasing the potential for mistakes, and providing faster provi-
sioning. It does not specifically address auditability in ways that manual processes cannot. 
Regardless of how provisioning is done, audit logs and trails should be created for all 
events, not just automated ones.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  303
163. B. Bug bounty programs are frequently part of responsible disclosure programs intended 
to provide a way for third parties to report security issues and to be incentivized to report 
them in responsible ways. Bug bounties can help identify flaws, but they’re not typically 
part of contracted penetration testing engagements. Third- party bounty is not a typical way 
of describing them, and trusted threat programs were made up for this question.
164. D. Even if you’re not familiar with specific Cisco IOS commands and configuration you 
can quickly determine that this is a Network Time Protocol (NTP)- related setting. Authen-
ticating NTP and ensuring a trusted key is enabled would help to ensure that network time 
is trusted and secure. This prevents attackers from conducting attacks that rely on modi-
fying network time or the switch recording incorrect time in its logs. There is no Network 
Terminal Protocol, this does not impact logs, and network time traffic is not encrypted.
165. C. Using a VPN is a best practice over any untrusted or potentially untrusted network 
connection. Patching the phone and deploying a security baseline are good for the phone’s 
security, but they won’t help directly with the security of data in transit.
166. C. ISACs, or Information Sharing and Analysis Centers, are information- sharing organi-
zations established to connect organizations in verticals like health care, government, util-
ities, and higher education. While it may provide OSINT information, they go far beyond 
that. They are not typically found via the dark web and don’t require TOR to access their 
information, and they are not commercial or proprietary threat data sources.
167. A. Attestation is the verification of ownership or that a person matches who they claim to 
be. In this case, Mark presents his driver’s license to attest to his own identity. Provisioning 
is the creation of accounts and the granting of rights, and deprovisioning is the removal of 
accounts and rights for accounts. SSO is single sign- on.
168. D. Bluetooth devices can be fingerprinted relatively easily, making it easy to identify 
individual users who have Bluetooth turned on. Modern Bluetooth traffic is encrypted, 
its relatively short range is not a security concern, and Bluejacking sends unwanted spam, 
which isn’t a direct data security issue.
169. D. PAM tools provide a variety of capabilities, including just- in- time permissions, password 
vaulting, and ephemeral credentials. Password persistence was made up for this question 
and is not a typical feature.
170. A. Port scans can help with enumeration of assets when an inventory does not exist. They 
do not provide OSINT; OSINT is a passive information- gathering process and a scan 
is an active process. Version tracking via port scans is inaccurate and does not provide 
full information. Identifying assets via port scans is a reasonably common part of asset 
management, particularly for initial discovery.
171. C. Fingerprints are biometric factors and are something you are. Something you know is a 
knowledge factor like a password or PIN. Something you have is a hardware token, RFID 
card, or other similar factor. Somewhere you are is a geographic factor based on location 
such as GPS coordinates.304 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
172. C. Dependency checking for open source software is a common best practice to help ensure 
that underlying components do not have known security vulnerabilities. There are depen-
dency security checking applications and tools available that Dana could use to help with 
this process. Software source code escrow is often used to ensure that organizations can 
obtain the software code if a company goes out of business or other adverse events occur 
that might endanger the company relying on the code. Reviewing the source code for an 
entire application is outside of the scope and capability of the majority of organizations, 
particularly when other dependencies are included. Purchasing software from a known 
vendor can help, but does not necessarily ensure that the software is secure and depen-
dencies don’t introduce or include known issues.
173. B. Sharon knows that Enterprise mode authentication is typically done with 802.1X. LDAP 
and Kerberos are not typically used for this, and SAML is more frequently part of federated 
and cloud services.
174. C. Windows supports both password history and a minimum password age to help pre-
vent users from simply resetting their password over and over again until they can reuse 
their preferred password. This does not prevent attackers from resetting passwords or using 
brute- force attacks and doesn’t ensure password expiration.
175. B. CVSS scores are based on base metrics like the attack vector; complexity; scope; user 
interaction required and privileges required; the temporal group, which includes exploit 
code maturity, remediation level, and report confidence; and the environmental group, 
including confidentiality, availability, and integrity requirements. While scope, impact, risk, 
and threat all play into these elements, CVSS calls the three metric groups Base, Temporal, 
and Environmental.
176. B. In scenarios where the data needs to be guaranteed to be unrecoverable, physical 
destruction is a common choice. Zero wiping and reformatting both leave remnant data on 
SSDs, and sanitization processes are reasonably secure but cannot always be guaranteed to 
result in total data removal.
177. A. IoT devices often have very limited security options, if any. That means that hardening 
them using built- in tools and configurations is limited, if not impossible. IoT devices typi-
cally use their own OS; benchmarks are rarely available, not just out- of- date; and central 
management for many IoT devices is frequently not available.
178. C. Reviewing any baseline to determine its fit for the organization and how the organiza-
tion’s systems and services operate is an appropriate next step after selecting a benchmark. 
Deploying SELinux may be necessary for some features depending on the distribution in 
use, but nothing in the question indicates that this is required. Once the benchmark has 
been modified to purpose and suitability, it can be tested, and further modifications can be 
made if necessary. Finally, it can be deployed and managed.
179. B. EAP- TLS provides TLS- based Transport Layer Security as part of a secure authentica-
tion implementation. LEAP is the Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol, which 
was in use before 802.11i but is now largely outdated. EAP- PSK uses a preshared key for 
mutual authentication and does not rely on public key encryption, but it is not supported in 
WPA3 deployments. EAP- PWD uses a shared password for authentication and, like EAP- 
PSK, is not supported by WPA3.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  305
180. C. DLP systems often rely on classification, tagging, and metadata to help them identify 
sensitive data that the organization handles and which could be exfiltrated or sent inadver -
tently outside of the organization. Hashing and creating signatures is more commonly asso-
ciated with filesystem- monitoring tools. Encrypting the data is not required by a DLP and 
may actually make it harder for the DLP to identify the data. Applying a mandatory access 
control scheme to the data is not a typical step in preparing for DLP- based protection.
181. D. File integrity monitoring tools use hashes to validate that files match their original 
content. If the files change, the hashes will not match, allowing the tool to alert adminis-
trators that a change has occurred. Drive encryption and file encryption both protect the 
confidentiality of data but don’t indicate changes without a signature. File availability mon-
itoring is not a typical tool, although system or service availability monitoring is.
182. A. Endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools are most likely to use hashing to match 
known malicious files like this. Firewalls may provide the capability, but system logs do not, 
ruling out the “all of the above” option.
183. B. Group Policy is the most common way of deploying baselines throughout Windows 
organizations. Group Policy Objects (GPOs) are set and managed across the entire Active 
Directory organization, allowing them to be modified for groups or specific purposes while 
inheriting most settings from the top of the organizational structure. PowerShell is a script-
ing tool, and both PowerShell and Group Policy are commonly used for specific purposes, 
but GPOs are typically preferred at scale. Manual configuration is not recommended for an 
entire organization.
184. B. A common technique to ensure that traffic sent via unsecure protocols remains secure 
is to wrap it using TLS. SD- WAN is used to manage external connectivity, and there is no 
mention of files, only of an unsecure protocol. Even if files were encrypted, the rest of the 
traffic might leak information. Hashing does not leave data recoverable, making it unusable 
for this type of use in almost all cases.
185. B. Passwordless authentication avoids making users provide a password or PIN by using a 
proof of identity from a device or token. Windows Hello, cell- based authenticator applica-
tions, and FIDO2 security keys all support this, but entering a PIN does not.
186. B. Since ICS and SCADA devices need connectivity as part of their design, Laura knows 
that using segmentation to place the devices in a secure network is likely her best hardening 
option. Isolating the devices would break the functionality of ICS/SCADA systems. Neither 
ICS nor SCADA devices typically have support for host- based firewalls or host- based IPS.
187. B. The detection and analysis phases of the incident response process both commonly 
leverage IoCs to detect and then correlate information to identify incidents. Preparation 
might involve setting up threat feeds and building automations to help notify security 
administrators of issues. Containment and eradication may leverage threat data to help 
understand common actions taken by threat actors, but the SIEM detecting and correlating 
events is not typically part of containment or eradication.
188. A. Enabling DNS filtering based on the URL from the email is the most effective option 
listed. Disabling the organization’s Internet connection will result in additional disruption. 
Blocking the email’s source IP for an already received email will not be effective, nor will 
enabling reputation services for email after the email has already been received.306 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
189. B. Successful authentications will not be logged based on these settings. Having access 
to both successes and failures can be useful when investigating incidents, particularly if 
attackers have stolen credentials. Text- based log files take up minimal space on most work-
stations and servers and should not be a significant concern. While the message notes that 
the policy may be overridden, Nick’s primary concern should be missing log data.
190. B. CVSS scores range from 0 to 10.0, with 10.0 being the most critical. A score of .1–3.9 is 
considered a low rating, meaning that Brian can take his time to review and remediate the 
risk. Scores of 4.0–6.9 are medium, 7.0–8.9 are high, and 9.0–10.0 are critical.
191. A. DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail) validates a domain’s identity using a public key 
pair, validating the authenticity of the sender. DMARC (Domain- based Message Authenti-
cation, Reporting, and Conformance) controls how unauthenticated messages are handled 
by mailbox providers, including quarantining, rejecting, or rejecting messages. The Sender 
Policy Framework (SPF) lists IP addresses of systems allowed to send email in DNS TXT 
records for a domain. STP is not an email security framework. The Simple Mail Transfer 
Protocol (SMTP) is the default email protocol.
192. C. SELinux is a Linux kernel module that provides a variety of security capabilities and 
access control methods, including support for MAC (mandatory access control) for Linux 
systems. Group Policy is a Windows tool, the CIS benchmarks provide security configura-
tion recommendations for systems but do not directly provide mandatory access control, 
and containerization is used to make application installations portable.
193. B. Package monitoring tools review the dependencies and packages that make up open 
source tools to identify vulnerable components. Static analysis is manual review of code. 
Fagan testing is a formal code analysis process. Port scanning is not used to monitor for 
dependency security.
194. B. SaaS environments allow customers to manage information, data, devices, accounts, 
and identities. That means that ensuring least privilege is used is possible through use of 
accounts and identities. Host- based firewalls, OS configurations, and physical security are 
all the responsibility of the SaaS provider.
195. A. Unlike the other controls listed, insurance simply transfers the risk to another organi-
zation at a cost. It does not take any action to prevent the risk from occurring. Patching, 
segmentation, and firewalling are all technical controls.
196. D. Sanitization is part of decommissioning and disposal processes, not asset management. 
Tracking data classification used on systems, identifying owners, and documenting acquisi-
tion dates for warranty and life- cycle tracking are all common parts of this process.
197. C. Enterprise password managers provide functionality just like this, allowing passwords 
to be stored securely and tracked on use. EAP is an authentication protocol; multifactor 
authentication adds one or more factors, increasing security, but doesn’t provide the func-
tionality described; and passwordless isn’t designed for a checkout and reset function.Chapter 4: Domain 4.0: Security Operations  307
198. B. Using threat data from reputation tools will best fit Selah’s needs. Agent- based web fil-
tering is used when systems will be mobile or connected to networks that are not controlled 
centrally. Centralized web filtering proxies and URL scanning are useful general controls, 
but reputation tools answer the specific need more directly.
199. A. ACLs are interpreted in the order they are listed. This ACL is not properly written if it 
is intended to block HTTPS because the ACL order includes a rule that allows any traffic 
after the rule that blocks HTTP is processed. This means that traffic will first be checked 
to see if it is HTTP traffic. If it is not, it will be allowed, and thus will bypass the HTTPS 
block. It will not prevent web application attacks since HTTPS can pass the ACL, and no 
specific configuration is set for inspection of web traffic.
200. A. User and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) tools are specifically designed to use 
behavior- based analytic tools leveraging machine learning and algorithmic analysis. SIEM 
is used to correlate events and log data as part of ongoing monitoring. EDR focuses on 
malicious behavior detection on endpoints. DMARC is used for email security.
201. C. Password history is intended to prevent password reuse in Windows. It is commonly 
paired with a minimum password age to prevent users from simply resetting their password 
multiple times until they can reuse their password, and a longer history is used to make this 
more difficult too. It does not influence password length or complexity.
202. C. This script will stop and disable the Windows Defender service on a system with IP 
address 10.1.1.101. You can identify both the Stop- Service and StartupType  
Disabled values in the script to determine what it is likely to do. It does not start Win-
dows Defender, nor does it enable the service.
203. B. Since Batu has been asked to consider the lifespan of the scripts, ensuring that they’re 
supportable in an ongoing manner is the biggest concern. Initial cost is typically small com-
pared to the ongoing benefit of scripts like these. Existing technical debt is not a major 
concern for automated ticket creation with a new tool, and while having a single point 
of failure can be a concern, automated ticket outages are a point- in- time concern not a 
lifetime- centered concern.
204. A. Alex has used a compensating control because he cannot remediate the underlying vul-
nerability. This reduces the risk by preventing the devices from being available on the net-
work to untrusted devices and users. He cannot patch, no insurance was purchased, and no 
exemption was granted or registered.
205. C. Eradication efforts focus on completely removing all artifacts of a compromise or event. 
Wiping drives to ensure that no remnant malware or other artifacts remain, then reinstall-
ing using known good media are examples of eradication processes. Restoring the system to 
service after it has been remediated occurs after eradication. Containment efforts attempt to 
limit the potential spread or ongoing impact of an incident, and root cause analysis is used 
to determine the underlying causes of an issue, incident, or event. Root cause elimination is 
not a commonly used term for this.308 Appendix ■ Answers to Review Questions
206. A. Certification of destruction can include photographic evidence, logs, and other data that 
demonstrate the disposal contract was followed. Data retention policies are applied inter -
nally, not to third- party companies that are contracted for disposal.
207. C. CVSS environmental scores help organizations take their own requirements and risks 
into account. That means that Sally can use numeric scores to prioritize risk while using her 
organization’s needs and unique threat model. Qualitative and quantitative risk assessments 
are useful, but they are not as well suited to leveraging data from a vulnerability scanner in 
a timely manner.
208. A. Password expiration polices help reduce the length of time a password could be exposed 
for. Henry knows that if his staff change their password periodically that it can help avoid 
issues with reuse on other sites. He also knows that multifactor is a more effective solu-
tion and that he should focus his time there as well. Password length and complexity don’t 
matter if the password was compromised elsewhere, and minimum age policies are used to 
prevent reuse in the organization by resetting passwords over and over again to return to 
an original desired password. Note that policies like this don’t stop reuse outside of a user’s 
organization on 3rd party sites!
209. D. Fuzzing, the process of feeding unexpected and random input to programs to see how 
they behave, is an example of dynamic analysis where the code is actually run to test it. 
Static analysis involves reviewing the code, as does code review. Fuzzing is typically done as 
part of software testing rather than penetration testing, but it may be used by pentesters.
210. B. Ensuring supply chain security can be challenging, but buying directly from a vendor 
can remove opportunities for devices to be modified. Trusted value- added resellers are the 
second best choice. Buying from the gray market or a reseller typically adds additional 
opportunities for device modification.
211. B. Increasing password length makes it harder to crack. Decreasing the password length 
would make passwords easier to crack. History and expiration do not influence brute- force 
attacks unless the expiration happens to land during the time the password cracking was 
attempted.
212. C. IDS and IPS devices are the only network security device in this list. Other common logs 
used to identify potential DDoS attacks include network logs and firewall logs. Applica-
tion and web server logs may be useful if the DDoS is associated with an application. OS- 
specific security logs, endpoint logs, and authentication logs are not typical places to find 
useful information for a network- based DDoS attack.
213. A. SAE (Simultaneous Authentication of Equals) provides a secure authentication mode 
that replaced WPA2’s preshared key session key negotiation process. PKI is public key 
encryption and is not the solution in use. TLS is Transport Layer Security, used to encrypt 
data in motion, and EAP is an authentication protocol.
214. D. Embedded systems typically have few, if any hardening options because of their 
purpose- built functionality. Benchmarks are rarely available for them, and most are not 
designed for central management or adding on security software.Chapter 5: Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  309
215. B. Identity proofing uses information about a user to prove that they are who they claim 
to be. A state or nationally issued ID is a better proof than a Facebook or Google account 
which can be created under any name without validation. Credit cards are not a form of 
identity.
