
1. John wants to harden his organization’s routers. If there are no currently known vulnerabil- ities or issues with the device, which of the following hardening options will provide the big- gest benefit?
A. Moving their administrative interfaces to a protected VLAN
B. Disabling unnecessary services
C. Installing the most current patch level for the OS
D. Enabling SNMP- based logging 

2. Jackson is reviewing his organization’s logs and discovers multiple new user accounts cre- ated after business hours using administrative credentials. What term describes searching for  potential issues like this?
A. IoC creation
B. Threat hunting
C. Root cause analysis
D. Eradication 

3. Cynthia is concerned about attacks against an application programming interface (API) that  her company provides for its customers. What should she recommend to ensure that the API  is only used by customers who have paid for the service?
A. Require authentication.
B. Install and configure a firewall.
C. Filter by IP address.
D. Install and use an IPS. 

4. Greg wants to gain admission to a network which is protected by a network access control  (NAC) system that recognized the hardware address of systems. How can he bypass this  protection?
A. Spoof a legitimate IP address.
B. Conduct a denial- of- service attack against the NAC system.
C. Use MAC cloning to clone a legitimate MAC address.
D. None of the above. 

5. Melissa’s organization has deployed a firewall that uses three interfaces to provide services.  The first interface connects to the Internet, the second to a network where the organization’s  web servers reside, and the third to a secured network where the organization’s workstations  are connected. What type of firewall architecture has Melissa’s organization deployed?
A. An ACL
B. A screened subnet
C. A binary firewall
D. A multihomed, multiroute NGFW 

6. CVE is an example of what type of feed?
A. A threat intelligence feed
B. A vulnerability feed
C. A critical infrastructure listing feed
D. A critical virtualization exploits feed 

7. Amanda scans a Red Hat Linux server that she believes is fully patched and discovers that  the Apache version on the server is reported as vulnerable to an exploit from a few months  ago. When she checks to see if she is missing patches, Apache is fully patched. What has  occurred?
A. A false positive
B. An automatic update failure
C. A false negative
D. An Apache version mismatch 

8. Telnet, RSH, and FTP are all examples of what?
A. File transfer protocols
B. Unsecure protocols
C. Core protocols
D. Open ports 

9. What term describes data that is collected from publicly available sources that can be used in  an intelligence context?
A. OPSEC
B. OSINT
C. STIX
D. IntCon 

10. Patrick has subscribed to a commercial threat intelligence feed that is only provided to sub- scribers who have been vetted and who pay a monthly fee. What industry term is used to  refer to this type of threat intelligence?
A. Proprietary threat intelligence
B. OSINT
C. ELINT
D. Corporate threat intelligence 

11. Susan receives $10,000 for reporting a vulnerability to a vendor who participates in a  program to identify issues. What term is commonly used to describe this type of payment?
A. A ransom
B. A zero- day disclosure
C. A bug bounty
D. A payday 

12. Ben runs a vulnerability scan using up- to- date definitions for a system that he knows has a  vulnerability in the version the web server is running. The vulnerability scan does not show  that issue when he reviews the report. What has Ben encountered?
A. A silent patch
B. A missing vulnerability update
C. A false negative
D. A false positive 

13. Angela reviews bulletins and advisories to determine what threats her organization is likely  to face. What type of activity is this associated with?
A. Incident response
B. Threat hunting
C. Penetration testing
D. Vulnerability scanning 

14. Frank is using the cloud hosting service’s web publishing service rather than running his own  web servers. Where will Frank need to look to review his logs to see what types of traffic his  application is creating?
A. Syslog
B. Apache logs
C. The cloud service’s web logs
D. None of the above 

15. The following graphic shows a report from an OpenVAS vulnerability scan. What should  Charles do first to determine the best fix for the vulnerability shown?
A. Disable PHP- CGI.
B. Upgrade PHP to version 5.
4.
C. Review the vulnerability descriptions in the CVEs listed.
D. Disable the web server. 

16. Ian runs a vulnerability scan, which notes that a service is running on TCP port 8080. What  type of service is most likely running on that port?
A. SSH
B. RDP
C. MySQL
D. HTTP

17. Carolyn runs a vulnerability scan of a network device and discovers that the device is  running services on TCP ports 22 and 
443. What services has she most likely discovered?
A. Telnet and a web server
B. FTP and a Windows file share
C. SSH and a web server
D. SSH and a Windows file share 

18. Susan is responsible for application development in her company. She wants to have all web  applications tested before they are deployed live. She wants to use a test system that is iden- tical to the live server. What is this called?
A. A production server
B. A development server
C. A test server
D. A predeployment server 

19. Alexandra is preparing to run automated security tests against the code that developers in her  organization have completed. Which environment is she most likely to run them in if the next  step is to deploy the code to production?
A. Development
B. Test
C. Staging
D. Production 

20. Chris wants to limit who can use an API that his company provides and be able to log usage  of the API uniquely to each organization that they provide access to. What solution is most  often used to do this?
A. Firewalls with rules for each company’s public IP address
B. User credentials for each company
C. API keys
D. API passwords 

21. Angela wants to ensure that IoT devices in her organization have a secure configuration  when they are deployed and that they are ready for further configuration for their specific  purposes. What term is used to describe these standard configurations used as part of her  configuration management program?
A. A baseline configuration
B. An essential settings list
C. A preinstall checklist
D. A setup guide

22. Chris is following the CIS Windows Server 2022 benchmark and notices that it recommends  that Computer Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Windows Components\ Search\Allow indexing of encrypted files is set to disabled. What potential issue would this  help to prevent?
A. Data leakage
B. Denial of service
C. Insecure service
D. Dark web access 

23. Elizabeth wants to implement a cloud- based authorization system. Which of the following  protocols is she most likely to use for that purpose?
A. OpenID
B. Kerberos
C. SAML
D. OAuth 

24. Tony wants to implement a biometric system for entry access in his organization. Which of  the following systems is likely to be most accepted by members of his organization’s staff?
A. Fingerprint
B. Retina
C. Iris
D. Voice 

25. What is the primary threat model against static codes used for multifactor authentication?
A. Brute force
B. Collisions
C. Theft
D. Clock mismatch 

26. Nadine’s organization stores and uses sensitive information, including Social Security num- bers. After a recent compromise, she has been asked to implement technology that can help  prevent this sensitive data from leaving the company’s systems and networks. What type of  technology should Nadine implement?
A. Stateful firewalls
B. OEM
C. DLP
D. SIEM

27. Social login, the ability to use an existing identity from a site like Google, Facebook, or a  Microsoft account, is an example of which of the following concepts?
A. Federation
B. AAA
C. Privilege creep
D. Identity and access management

28. Charles has configured his multifactor system to require both a PIN and a password. How  many effective factors does he have in place once he presents both of these and his username?
A. One
B. Two
C. Three
D. Four 

29. Naomi is designing her organization’s wireless network and wants to ensure that the design  places access points in areas where they will provide optimum coverage. She also wants to  plan for any sources of RF interference as part of her design. What should Naomi do first?
A. Contact the FCC for a wireless map.
B. Conduct a site survey.
C. Disable all existing access points.
D. Conduct a port scan to find all existing access points. 

30. Charlene wants to provision her organization’s standard set of marketing information to mo- bile devices throughout her organization. What MDM feature is best suited to this task?
A. Application management
B. Remote wipe
C. Content management
D. Push notifications 

31. Denny wants to deploy antivirus for his organization and wants to ensure that it will stop the  most malware. What deployment model should Denny select?
A. Install antivirus from the same vendor on individual PCs and servers to best balance visi- bility, support, and security.
B. Install antivirus from more than one vendor on all PCs and servers to maximize  coverage.
C. Install antivirus from one vendor on PCs and from another vendor on the server to pro- vide a greater chance of catching malware.
D. Install antivirus only on workstations to avoid potential issues with server performance. 

32. Madhuri’s web application converts numbers that are input into fields by specifically typing  them and then applies strict exception handling. It also sets a minimum and maximum length  for the inputs that it allows and uses predefined arrays of allowed values for inputs like  months or dates. What term describes the actions that Madhuri’s application is performing?
A. Buffer overflow prevention
B. String injection
C. Input validation
D. Schema validation

33. You’re outlining your plans for implementing a wireless network to upper management.  What wireless security standard should you adopt if you don’t want to use enterprise authen- tication but want to provide secure authentication for users that doesn’t require a shared  password or passphrase?
A. WPA3
B. WPA
C. WPA2
D. WEP 

34. You are the chief security officer (CSO) for a large company. You have discovered mal- ware on one of the workstations. You are concerned that the malware might have multiple  functions and might have caused more security issues with the computer than you can cur - rently detect. What is the best way to test this malware?
A. Leave the malware on that workstation until it is tested.
B. Place the malware in a sandbox environment for testing.
C. It is not important to analyze or test it; just remove it from the machine.
D. Place the malware on a honeypot for testing. 

35. Isaac is reviewing his organization’s secure coding practices document for customer- facing  web applications and wants to ensure that their input validation recommendations are  appropriate. Which of the following is not a common best practice for input validation?
A. Ensure validation occurs on a trusted server.
B. Validate all client- supplied data before it is processed.
C. Validate expected data types and ranges.
D. Ensure validation occurs on a trusted client. 

36. Isaac wants to prevent corporate mobile devices from being used outside of his company’s  buildings and corporate campus. What mobile device management (MDM) capability should  he use to allow this?
A. Patch management
B. IP filtering
C. Geofencing
D. Network restrictions

37. Sophia wants to test her company’s web application to see if it is handling business logic  properly. Which testing method would be most effective for this?
A. Static code analysis
B. Fuzzing
C. Baselining
D. Version control

38. Endpoint detection and response has three major components that make up its ability to   provide visibility into endpoints. Which of the following is not one of those three parts?
A. Data search
B. Malware analysis
C. Data exploration
D. Suspicious activity detection 

39. Carl has been asked to set up access control for a server. The requirements state that users  at a lower privilege level should not be able to see or access files or data at a higher privilege  level. What access control model would best fit these requirements?
A. MAC
B. DAC
C. RBAC
D. SAML 

40. Jack wants to deploy a network access control (NAC) system that will stop systems that are  not fully patched from connecting to his network. If he wants to have full details of system  configuration, antivirus version, and patch level, what type of NAC deployment is most likely  to meet his needs?
A. Agentless, preadmission
B. Agent- based, preadmission
C. Agentless, postadmission
D. Agent- based, postadmission 

41. Eric wants to provide company- purchased devices, but his organization prefers to provide  end users with choices among devices that can be managed and maintained centrally. What  mobile device deployment model best fits this need?
A. BYOD
B. COPE
C. CYOD
D. VDI 

42. Claire is concerned about an attacker getting information regarding network devices and  their configuration in her company. Which protocol should she implement that would be  most helpful in mitigating this risk while providing management and reporting about   network devices?
A. RADIUS
B. TLS
C. SNMPv3
D. SFTP

43. Eric is responsible for his organization’s mobile device security. They use a modern mobile  device management (MDM) tool to manage a BYOD mobile device environment. Eric needs  to ensure that the applications and data that his organization provides to users of those   mobile devices remain as secure as possible. Which of the following technologies will provide  him with the best security?
A. Storage segmentation
B. Containerization
C. Full- device encryption
D. Remote wipe 

44. Tara is concerned about staff in her organization sending email with sensitive information  like customer Social Security numbers (SSNs) included in it. What type of solution can she  implement to help prevent inadvertent exposures of this type of sensitive data?
A. FDE
B. DLP
C. S/MIME
D. POP3S 

45. Mason is responsible for security at a company that has traveling salespeople. The company  has been using ABAC for access control to the network. Which of the following is an issue  that is specific to ABAC and might cause it to incorrectly reject logins?
A. Geographic location.
B. Wrong password.
C. Remote access is not allowed by ABAC.
D. Firewalls usually block ABAC. 

46. Darrell is concerned that users on his network have too many passwords to remember and  might write down their passwords, thus creating a significant security risk. Which of the fol- lowing would be most helpful in mitigating this issue?
A. Multifactor authentication
B. SSO
C. SAML
D. LDAP

47. Frank is a security administrator for a large company. Occasionally, a user needs to access  a specific resource that they don’t have permission to access. Which access control method- ology would be most helpful in this situation?
A. Mandatory access control (MAC)
B. Discretionary access control (DAC)
C. Role- based access control
D. Rule- based access control

48. Oliver needs to explain the access control scheme used by both the Windows and Linux file- systems. What access control scheme do they implement by default?
A. Role- based access control
B. Mandatory access control
C. Rule- based access control
D. Discretionary access control 

49. Stefan just became the new security officer for a university. He is concerned that student  workers who work late on campus could try to log in with faculty credentials. Which of the  following would be most effective in preventing this?
A. Time- of- day restrictions
B. Usage auditing
C. Password length
D. Credential management 

50. Chloe has noticed that users on her company’s network frequently have simple passwords  made up of common words. Thus, they have weak passwords. How could Chloe best miti- gate this issue?
A. Increase minimum password length.
B. Have users change passwords more frequently.
C. Require password complexity.
D. Implement single sign- on (SSO). 

51. A companywide policy is being created to define various security levels. Which of the follow- ing systems of access control would use documented security levels like Confidential or Secret  for information?
A. RBAC
B. MAC
C. DAC
D. BAC 

52. Users in your network are able to assign permissions to their own shared resources. Which of  the following access control models is used in your network?
A. DAC
B. RBAC
C. MAC
D. ABAC

53. Cynthia is preparing a new server for deployment, and her process includes turning off  unnecessary services, setting security settings to match her organization’s baseline configura- tions, and installing patches and updates. What is this process known as?
A. OS hardening
B. Security uplift
C. Configuration management
D. Endpoint lockdown 

54. John is performing a port scan of a network as part of a security audit. He notices that the  domain controller is using secure LDAP. Which of the following ports would lead him to that  conclusion?
A. 53
B. 389
C. 443
D. 636 

55. Which of the following access control methods grants permissions based on the user’s posi- tion in the organization?
A. MAC
B. RBAC
C. DAC
D. ABAC 

56. Gary is designing his cloud infrastructure and needs to provide a firewall- like capability for  the virtual systems he is running. Which of the following cloud capabilities acts like a virtual  firewall?
A. Security groups
B. Dynamic resource allocation
C. VPC endpoints
D. Instance awareness

57. Henry is an employee at Acme Company. The company requires him to change his password  every three months. He has trouble remembering new passwords, so he keeps switching   between just two passwords. Which policy would be most effective in preventing this?
A. Password complexity
B. Password history
C. Password length
D. Multifactor authentication 

58. Tracy wants to limit when users can log in to a stand- alone Windows workstation. What  should Tracy do to meet this requirement?
A. Set login time restrictions.
B. Turn the system off automatically during hours it should not be used.
C. Hire security guards to monitor the space.
D. Disable remote login during the hours the system should not be used. 

59. Lucas is looking for an XML- based open standard for exchanging authentication  information. Which of the following would best meet his needs?
A. SAML
B. OAuth
C. RADIUS
D. NTLM 

60. Murali is preparing to acquire data from various devices and systems that are targets in a  forensic investigation. Which of the following devices is the least volatile according to the  order of volatility?
A. Backups
B. CPU cache
C. Local disk
D. RAM 

61. What phase of the incident response process should be placed at point A in the follow- ing image? APreparation Detection Analysis ContainmentEradication Incident Response Process
A. Simulations
B. Review
C. Recovery
D. Patching

62. Brent wants to use a tool to help him analyze malware and attacks and wants to cover a  broad range of tactics and tools that are used by adversaries. Which of the following is  broadly implemented in technical tools and covers techniques and tactics without requiring a  specific order of operations?
A. The CIS Benchmark
B. The Dark Web Analysis Project
C. The MITRE ATT&CK framework
D. The CVSS standard 

63. Ted needs to preserve a server for forensic purposes. Which of the following should  he not do?
A. Turn the system off to ensure that data does not change.
B. Remove the drive while the system is running to ensure that data does not change.
C. Leave the machine connected to the network so that users can continue to use it.
D. All of the above. 

64. Jessica wants to review the network traffic that her Windows system has sent to determine if  a file containing sensitive data was uploaded from the system. What Windows log file can she  use to find this information?
A. The application log
B. The network log
C. The security log
D. None of the above 

65. What term is used to describe the documentation trail for control, analysis, transfer, and final  disposition of evidence for digital forensic work?
A. Evidence log
B. Paper trail
C. Chain of custody
D. Digital footprint 

66. Nathan needs to know how many times an event occurred and wants to check a log file for  that event. Which of the following grep commands will tell him how many times the event  happened if each occurrence is logged independently in the logfile.txt log file, and uses  a unique event ID, event101?
A. grep logfile.txt - n 'event101'
B. grep - c 'event101' logfile.txt
C. grep logfile.txt - c 'event101'
D. grep - c event101 - i logfile.txt

67. Eric wants to determine how much bandwidth was used during a compromise and where the  traffic was directed to. What technology can he implement before the event to help him see  this detail and allow him to have an effective bandwidth monitoring solution?
A. A firewall
B. NetFlow
C. Packetflow
D. A DLP 

68. Naomi has acquired an image of a drive as part of a forensic process. She wants to ensure  that the drive image matches the original. What should she create and record to validate this?
A. A third image to compare to the original and new image
B. A directory listing to show that the directories match
C. A photographic image of the two drives to show that they match
D. A hash of the drives to show that their hashes match 

69. Ryan has been asked to run Nessus on his network. What type of tool has he been  asked to run?
A. A fuzzer
B. A vulnerability scanner
C. A WAF
D. A protocol analyzer 

70. Michelle wants to check for authentication failures on a RedHat Linux–based system. Where  should she look for these event logs?
A. /var/log/auth.log
B. /var/log/fail
C. /var/log/events
D. /var/log/secure 

71. Nelson has discovered malware on one of the systems he is responsible for and wants to test  it in a safe environment. Which of the following tools is best suited to that testing?
A. strings
B. scanless
C. Cuckoo
D. Sn1per 

72. Lucca wants to review metadata related to a JPEG file. What will he need to do to review it?
A. Change the JPEG to a GIF to see the metadata.
B. Download the metadata file from the original author.
C. Use a metadata viewer.
D. Analyze the hash of the file.

73. Jason is conducting a forensic investigation and has retrieved artifacts in addition to drives  and files. What should he do to document the artifacts he has acquired?
A. Image them using dd and ensure that a valid MD5sum is generated.
B. Take a picture of them, label them, and add them to the chain- of- custody  documentation.
C. Contact law enforcement to properly handle the artifacts.
D. Engage legal counsel to advise him how to handle artifacts in an investigation. 

74. Joseph is writing a forensic report and wants to be sure he includes appropriate detail. Which  of the following would not typically be included while discussing analysis of a system?
A. Validation of the system clock’s time settings
B. The operating system in use
C. The methods used to create the image
D. A picture of the person from whom the system was taken 

75. Elaine wants to determine what websites a user has recently visited using the contents of a  forensically acquired hard drive. Which of the following locations would not be useful for  her investigation?
A. The browser cache
B. The browser history
C. The browser’s bookmarks
D. Session data 

76. Susan has discovered evidence of a compromise that occurred approximately five months  ago. She wants to conduct an incident investigation but is concerned about whether the data  will exist. What policy guides how long logs and other data are kept in most organizations?
A. The organization’s data classification policy
B. The organization’s backup policy
C. The organization’s retention policy
D. The organization’s legal hold policy

77. Alaina sets her antimalware solution to move infected files to a safe storage location without  removing them from the system. What type of setting has she enabled?
A. Purge
B. Deep- freeze
C. Quarantine
D. Retention 

78. A senior vice president in the organization that Chuck works in recently lost a phone that  contained sensitive business plans and information about suppliers, designs, and other impor - tant materials. After interviewing the vice president, Chuck finds out that the phone did   not have a passcode set and was not encrypted, and that it could not be remotely wiped. What type of control should Chuck recommend for his company to help prevent future issues  like this?
A. Use containment techniques on the impacted phones.
B. Deploy a DLP system.
C. Deploy an MDM system.
D. Isolate the impacted phones. 

79. Charles wants to ensure that the forensic work that he is doing cannot be repudiated. How  can he validate his attestations and documentation to ensure nonrepudiation?
A. Encrypt all forensic output.
B. Digitally sign the records.
C. Create a MD5 checksum of all images.
D. All of the above. 

80. Megan needs to conduct a forensic investigation of a virtual machine (VM) hosted in a  VMware environment as part of an incident response effort. What is the best way for her to  collect the VM?
A. As a snapshot using the VMware built- in tools
B. By using dd to copy the VM to an external drive
C. By using dd to copy the VM to an internal drive
D. By using a forensic imaging device after removing the server’s drives 

81. Which of the following groups is not typically part of an incident response team?
A. Law enforcement
B. Security analysts
C. Management
D. Communications staff 

82. Bob needs to block Secure Shell (SSH) traffic between two security zones. Which of the fol- lowing Linux iptables firewall rules will block that traffic from the 10.0.10.0/24 network  to the system the rule is running on?
A. iptables - A INPUT - p tcp - - dport 22 - i eth0 - s 10.0.10.0/  24 - j DROP
B. iptables - D OUTPUT - p udp - dport 21 - i eth0 - s 10.0.10  .255 - j DROP
C. iptables - A OUTPUT - p udp - - dport 22 - i eth0 - s 10.0.10  .255 - j BLOCK
D. iptables - D INPUT - p udp - - dport 21 - I eth0 - s 10.0.10.0/  24 - j DROP

83. A Windows system that Maria is responsible for has been experiencing service outages. The  outages correspond to processes run on another system in the datacenter, and Maria believes  that unexpected traffic may be sent to the Windows system. Which of the following data  sources should Maria use to best understand what is happening?
A. Perform a packet capture.
B. Enable a network firewall.
C. Use SIEM logs.
D. Perform a forensic drive copy. 

84. Amanda’s organization does not currently have an incident response plan. Which of the fol- lowing reasons is not one she should present to management in support of creating one?
A. It will prevent incidents from occurring.
B. It will help responders react appropriately under stress.
C. It will prepare the organization for incidents.
D. It may be required for legal or compliance reasons. 

85. Which of the following scenarios is least likely to result in data recovery being possible?
A. A file is deleted from a disk.
B. A file is overwritten by a smaller file.
C. A hard drive is quick- formatted.
D. A disk is degaussed. 

86. Henry records a video of the removal of a drive from a system as he is preparing for a  forensic investigation. What is the most likely reason for Henry to record the video?
A. To meet the order of volatility
B. To establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt
C. To ensure data preservation
D. To document the chain of custody and provenance of the drive

87. Charlene wants to set up a tool that can allow her to see all the systems a given IP address  connects to and how much data is sent to that IP by port and protocol. Which of the follow- ing tools is not suited to meet that need?
A. IPFIX
B. IPSec
C. sFlow
D. NetFlow 

88. Tools like PRTG and Cacti that monitor SNMP information are used to provide what type of  information for an incident investigation?
A. Authentication logs
B. Bandwidth monitoring
C. System log information
D. Email metadata

89. The company Charles works for has recently had a stolen company cell phone result in a  data breach. Charles wants to prevent future incidents of a similar nature. Which of the fol- lowing mitigation techniques would be the most effective?
A. Enable FDE via MDM.
B. A firewall change.
C. A DLP rule.
D. A new URL filter rule. 

90. What incident response step is missing from point X in the following image? Preparation Detection Analysis XRecoveryLessons Learned EradicationIncident Response Process
A. Business continuity
B. Containment
C. Response
D. Discovery 

91. Jill has been asked to perform data recovery due to her forensic skills. What should she tell  the person asking to perform data recovery to give her the best chance of restoring lost files  that were accidentally deleted?
A. Immediately reboot using the reset switch to create a lost file memory dump.
B. Turn off Secure Delete so that the files can be more easily recovered.
C. Do not save any files or make any changes to the system.
D. All of the above.

92. Veronica has completed the recovery phase of her organization’s incident response plan.  What phase should she move into next?
A. Preparation
B. Lessons learned
C. Recovery
D. Documentation 

93. Michelle has been asked to sanitize a number of drives to ensure that sensitive data is not  exposed when systems are removed from service. Which of the following is not a valid means  of sanitizing hard drives?
A. Physical destruction
B. Degaussing
C. Quick- formatting the drives
D. Zero- wiping the drives 

94. Bart is investigating an incident, and needs to identify the creator of a Microsoft Office docu- ment. Where would he find that type of information?
A. In the filename
B. In the Microsoft Office log files
C. In the Windows application log
D. In the file metadata 

95. Nathaniel wants to allow Chrome through the Windows Defender firewall. What type of  firewall rule change will he need to permit this?
A. Allow TCP 80 and 443 traffic from the system to the Internet.
B. Add Chrome to the Windows Defender Firewall allowed applications.
C. Allow TCP 80 and 443 traffic from the Internet to the system.
D. All of the above. 

96. What key forensic tool used to generate reports about what happened relies on correctly set  system clocks to work properly?
A. Disk hashing
B. Timelining
C. Forensic disk acquisition
D. File metadata analysis

97. Valerie is writing her organization’s forensic playbooks and knows that the state that she  operates in has a data breach notification law. Which of the following key items is most likely  to be influenced by that law?
A. Whether Valerie calls the police for forensic investigation help
B. The maximum amount of time until she has to notify customers of sensitive data  breaches
C. The certification types and levels that her staff have to maintain
D. The maximum number of residents that she can notify about a breach

98. As part of a breach response, Naomi discovers that Social Security numbers (SSNs) were  sent in a spreadsheet via email by an attacker who gained control of a workstation at her  company’s headquarters. Naomi wants to ensure that more SSNs are not sent from her  environment. What type of mitigation technique is most likely to prevent this while allow- ing operations to continue in as normal a manner as possible?
A. Antimalware installed at the email gateway
B. A firewall that blocks all outbound email
C. A DLP rule blocking SSNs in email
D. An IDS rule blocking SSNs in email 

99. Troy wants to review metadata about an email he has received to determine what system or  server the email was sent from. Where can he find this information?
A. In the email message’s footer
B. In the to: field
C. In the email message’s headers
D. In the from: field 

100. Isabelle wants to gather information about what systems a host is connecting to, how much  traffic is sent, and similar details. Which of the following options would not allow her to  perform that task?
A. IPFIX
B. NetFlow
C. NXLog
D. sFlow 

101. Valerie wants to check to see if a SQL injection attack occurred against her web application  on a Linux system. Which log file should she check for this type of information?
A. The security log
B. The DNS log
C. The auth log
D. The web server log 

102. Jean’s company is preparing for litigation with another company that they believe has  caused harm to Jean’s organization. What type of legal action should Jean’s lawyer take to  ensure that the company preserves files and information related to the legal case?
A. A chain- of- custody demand letter
B. An e- discovery notice
C. A legal hold notice
D. An order of volatility

103. What type of mitigation places a malicious file or application in a safe location for future  review or study?
A. Containment
B. Quarantine
C. Isolation
D. Deletion 

104. What phase of the incident response process often involves adding firewall rules and patch- ing systems to address the incident?
A. Preparation
B. Detection
C. Recovery
D. Analysis 

105. Tim wants to check the status of malware infections in his organization using the orga- nization’s security information and event management (SIEM) device. What SIEM dash- board will tell him about whether there are more malware infections in the past few days  than normal?
A. The alerts dashboard
B. The sensors dashboard
C. The trends dashboard
D. The bandwidth dashboard 

106. Michelle has been asked to use the CIS benchmark for Windows as part of her system secu- rity process. What information will she be using?
A. Information on how secure Windows is in its default state
B. A set of recommended security configurations to secure Windows
C. Performance benchmark tools for Windows systems, including network speed and fire- wall throughput
D. Vulnerability scan data for Windows systems provided by various manufacturers

107. All of your organization’s traffic flows through a single connection to the Internet. Which  of the following terms best describes this scenario?
A. Cloud computing
B. Load balancing
C. Single point of failure
D. Virtualization 

108. Nina is tasked with putting radio frequency identification (RFID) tags on every new piece  of equipment that enters her datacenter that costs more than $500. What type of organiza- tional policy is most likely to include this type of requirement?
A. A change management policy
B. An incident response policy
C. An asset management policy
D. An acceptable use policy 

109. Megan is reviewing her organization’s datacenter network diagram as shown in the follow- ing image. What should she note for point A on the diagram? Internet Service ProviderInternet Point A Point BF irewalls Routers Core Switches Edge SwitchesPoint DPoint C
A. A wireless link
B. A redundant connection
C. A wired link
D. A single point of failure 

110. Juan’s team is in charge of responding to potential phishing attacks and advertises an   infosec@example.com email address to his organization to send examples of potential  phishing attacks to. Which of the following is not a benefit Juan’s team would get from  automating the creation of tickets in their support tool based on these emails?
A. The ability to track whether they’ve been resolved
B. Automated phishing prevention
C. The ability to correlate multiple emails into a single event
D. The ability to trigger additional actions

111. Valerie wants to implement an email security framework that will help to ensure that only  authorized systems send email on behalf of her domains. Which of the following should she  implement?
A. DKIM
B. DMARC
C. STP
D. SPF 

112. Jake is investigating a service outage and notices the following traffic using a Wireshark  packet capture. Which of the following issues is most likely occurring?
A. An email phishing campaign
B. A SQL injection attack
C. A dropped network connection
D. A denial- of- service attack

113. Gary wants to deploy a tool that will allow him to identify and effectively respond to ran- somware that might target systems that his company owns. He knows that he is likely to  need to identify threats based on behavior rather than just using signatures, and he wants  to have a dashboard- style view of his data. What tool should Gary select to meet this need?
A. IPS
B. NAC
C. DLP
D. EDR 

114. Carl wants to test his organization’s incident response process. He conducts a tabletop  exercise for his security team. Which of the following best describes this type of exercise?
A. A scenario is introduced and each member of the team takes actions that they would  use to respond to the scenario.
B. Third- party penetration testers work with the security team to address issues they dis- covered during their penetration test.
C. The security team meets to talk through what they would do in a given scenario and  takes notes on what works and what doesn’t.
D. The organization’s datacenter is manually forced to fail over to an alternate site to test  the scenario’s objectives. 

115. Michelle wants to determine why attackers were able to take her organization’s web server  cluster offline after an incident occurred. What process should she and her team follow to  determine this?
A. Threat hunting
B. Root cause analysis
C. A lessons learned analysis
D. Recovery 

116. Randy wants to harden mobile devices used by his organization. Which of the following is  not a typical mobile device hardening step?
A. Disable Bluetooth.
B. Use strong screen lock passwords.
C. Install software updates.
D. Jailbreak the device.

117. Lucca wants to ensure that his organization’s mobile device connections are secure. Which  of the following connectivity options is the most secure choice?
A. WPA2 Personal
B. WPA3 Personal
C. WPA3 Enterprise
D. WPA4 Enterprise

118. The percentage of the value of an asset that is lost due to an incident or loss event is known  as what?
A. Asset depreciation
B. Exposure factor
C. Annual loss event
D. Asset valuation adjustment 

119. Derek’s organization has recently set up a notification process that sends a text message  to system administrators when security exception log events occur on the systems they are  responsible for. Unfortunately, Derek and his team have received dozens of alerts at all  times of the day due to the log event happening for failed logins when users type their pass- words incorrectly. What should Derek and his team do next to help with this?
A. Set alert thresholds.
B. Engage in alert tuning.
C. Disable the alerts.
D. Move the alerts to email. 

120. Jill wants to configure her IPS to detect a SQL injection attack that has become increas- ingly common against an open source web application that her organization runs. What  information would she need to create a signature for the attack?
A. The source IP address
B. The SQL code
C. The hash of the attack
D. The source port 

121. Ben’s organization has hired a new HR supervisor, Jack. When Jack was hired, Ben was  asked to provide Jack with the same rights and permissions as the other HR supervisor,  Erin. What is the most important issue Ben should identify with this process if the organiza- tion wants to follow identity and access management best practices?
A. Jack’s account should be provisioned based on his role, not on Erin’s rights.
B. Jack may not be senior enough to have access to the same systems as Erin does.
C. Erin may work with a different staff than Jack does.
D. Jack should not have access to Erin’s files. 

122. Ian wants to deploy multifactor tokens to his organization. Which of the following provides  the greatest security?
A. Hardware tokens
B. Application- based tokens
C. SMS multifactor
D. Extended password length

123. Gurvinder wants to explain the advantages of investing in automating security workflows  to his organization’s leadership. Recent audit findings have shown that systems are not all  fully patched and that settings may vary between systems using the same operating system.  Which common benefit of automation should he emphasize with leadership?
A. Enforcing baselines
B. Scaling in a secure manner
C. Improving reaction time
D. Automation’s role as a workforce multiplier 

124. Jake wants to understand the root cause of a security incident. He knows a number of the  events that occurred, but he wants to engage other staff members to define the root cause.  What common root cause analysis (RCA) technique should he use?
A. The Five W’s
B. A fishbone diagram
C. The Five Why’s
D. A recursion analysis 

125. Amanda is testing her company’s incident response process and has her staff perform actual  recovery actions without impacting production to validate how long it would take to  accomplish them. What type of event has she conducted?
A. A fail over test
B. A simulation
C. A plan review
D. A tabletop exercise 

126. Liam’s company has been notified of impending legal action and has been told to place a  legal hold on related items. What must Liam’s company do?
A. Continue their normal operations, including data life-cycle–related activities.
B. Identify data covered by the hold and preserve it, regardless of normal data life cycles  or activities.
C. Engage a law firm to preserve the data required by the legal hold.
D. Contact law enforcement to allow them to gather the data required by the legal hold.

127 . Paul wants to integrate his organization’s web application with common cloud identity  providers like Google and Microsoft. What authentication standard should he select if he  wants to maximize interoperability?
A. OAuth
B. Kerberos
C. LDAP
D. Active Directory

128. Jim wants to ensure that users who are located in his organization’s London office have  access to the building. What type of access control scheme should he select to best fit this  specific need?
A. Rule BAC
B. ABAC
C. Role BAC
D. MAC 

129. Dane wants to implement passwordless authentication for his organization. What type of  device should he issue to his users to support this type of authentication?
A. A password manager
B. An RFID card
C. A security key
D. A biometric token 

130. Ensuring that inetd services like echo, time, rsh, and telnet are not enabled are all examples  of what type of action?
A. Preventing SQL injection
B. Hardening a Linux system
C. Hardening a Windows system
D. Patching insecure services 

131. What mobile device deployment model provides the least control for the organization and  leaves the end user with the greatest choice?
A. BYOD
B. COPE
C. CYOD
D. COBO 

132. Akio has set the Secure Cookie attribute as part of her web application’s process for  sending new cookies to users. What does this attribute do?
A. It encrypts the cookie’s content when it is stored.
B. It stores the cookie on the server instead of on the remove device.
C. It removes the cookie after it has been used.
D. It requires that the cookie be sent only via HTTPS. 

133. Helen wants to sign her code. What will the output of code signing be?
A. An encrypted copy of the code using her private key
B. A signed hash of the software using her private key
C. A signed hash of the software using her public key
D. An encrypted copy of the code using her public key

134. Naomi’s organization has recently acquired another company. Naomi is concerned about  asset tracking and inventory because the acquired company does not have an inventory of  their systems and devices. What major security concern should she express about this from  a hardware asset management perspective?
A. There may not be an appropriate hardware life-cycle process.
B. Manufacturer support may not be possible without an inventory.
C. There is no way to know if systems are missing.
D. Vulnerability scans may not be accurate without an inventory. 

135. As part of his CI/CD pipeline process, Felix reviews source code manually to identify any  flaws or security concerns. What type of process is Felix following?
A. Dynamic analysis
B. Agile code development
C. Static analysis
D. Internal review 

136. As part of his research, Pedro uses a TOR browser to access threat actors’ sites. He is able  to see information about recent breaches and can download data dumps provided by the  threat actors. What information source is Pedro using?
A. The dark web
B. An information- sharing organization
C. Proprietary information
D. A threat feed
137 . Alaina has completed the eradication and recovery steps of the incident response process.  What step commonly comes after these two phases?

A. A lessons learned session
B. Detection
C. Training
D. A tabletop exercise 

138. Lucca knows that the CVSS environmental score is made up of three components, including  an impact metric. What three components does he need to consider as part of the impact  metric score?
A. Confidentiality, integrity, and availability
B. Network, disk, and memory
C. Severity, likelihood, and impact
D. Probability, impact, and cost

139. What tool is commonly used to allow for measurement and monitoring of security settings  to align with NIST 800- 53 controls?
A. SAML
B. CVE
C. CVSS
D. SCAP 

140. Adam has implemented a WPA3 Enterprise network. What type of encryption will be used  to protect data sent across the Wi- Fi connection?
A. AES
B. 3DES
C. SHA- 1
D. SHA- 256 

141. Tom wants to set up an authentication service for network devices. Which of the following  is commonly used for authentication to enterprise network devices?
A. Kerberos
B. SAML
C. TKIP
D. OpenID 

142. Ian wants to test embedded device web servers for potential security issues with the version  of the web server software. What tool should he select to do this most effectively across his  large organization’s network of IoT devices?
A. A WAF
B. Pentesting
C. A vulnerability scanner
D. A port scanner 

143. Tom wants his email servers to reject email that is not authenticated in a way to prevent  spoofing. Which of the following should he implement?
A. SPF
B. DMARC
C. DKIM
D. TLS 

144. Wayne has identified a vulnerable server that is part of his organization’s critical infrastruc- ture but that is no longer supported by the vendor and for which no additional patches  exist. Every time Wayne scans the server using his vulnerability scanner, the services on the  device crash. What should Wayne do?
A. Report the server as vulnerable and suggest that it be replaced immediately.
B. Disable the network connection on the device and isolate the server to protect it.
C. Identify a third- party insurance provider who will insure the organization against  potential issues with the server.
D. Document an exemption, remove the server from automated scans, and implement  compensating controls. 

145. Valentine’s organization wants to ensure that users who sign up for their web services are  who they claim to be. As part of the process they ask for information like birth date, Social  Security number, and previous addresses. What type of activity is Valentine’s organization  engaging in?
A. Provisioning user accounts
B. Identity proofing
C. Deprovisioning user accounts
D. Social identity 

146. Sam has completed patching of a critical vulnerability. What step is often performed next to  ensure that the patching occurred properly?
A. Noting false positives
B. Rebooting the system
C. Rescanning the system
D. Performing an audit
147 . Joan’s organization has recently remediated issues in their credit card processing environ- ment. If Joan wants to be able to attest to the security of the environment, what action  might she need to take to prove the security of the environment to customers?

A. Have third- party auditors validate the remediation.
B. Rescan the systems and document the differences between the scans.
C. Rescan the systems and provide updated reports to customers.
D. Allow customers to scan the systems to validate the changes. 

148. Alan wants to configure his firewall to allow Microsoft SQL traffic through to the database  server from web application servers in a screened subnet design. What is the minimum set  of ports that he should port to allow this?
A. TCP 3389 and 1433
B. TCP 1433
C. TCP 8080
D. TCP 139 and 445 

149. Which of the following terms refers to the process of establishing a standard for security?
A. Baselining
B. Security evaluation
C. Hardening
D. Normalization

150. Zhen’s new organization has informed him that they used a COPE model for their mobile  devices. What does this tell Zhen about what he can do with the device?
A. He can choose what device he uses, but the organization will own it.
B. He will be provided with a device but can use it for reasonable personal use.
C. He will be provided with a device and can only use it for business purposes.
D. He will have to bring his own device but can use it for personal and business use. 

151. The Windows Task Manager can be used to identify malware through what technique?
A. Dynamic analysis
B. Process auditing
C. CVSS matching
D. Vulnerability scanning 

152. Ujama wants to deploy a network device that will allow him to use policy- based controls  for email as well as active defenses against phishing attacks before email is delivered to his  users. Which of the following devices is best suited to this purpose?
A. A web application firewall
B. An email security gateway
C. A DKIM appliance
D. A DMARC appliance 

153. Allison wants to aggregate her logs and have them automatically correlated and reported  on. What sort of tool should she acquire for her organization?
A. MDM
B. A jump server
C. SDN
D. SIEM 

154. Natasha’s staff have been complaining about repetitive tasks that must be manually accom- plished to secure endpoint devices, then they are deployed. What could Natasha ask her  team to do to address this?
A. Leverage automation and scripting.
B. Deploy fewer devices.
C. Leverage baselines.
D. Move devices to the cloud. 

155. Which of the following methods typically provides the greatest insight into vulnerabilities  that exist on systems owned by a company?
A. Penetration tests
B. Authenticated scans
C. Unauthenticated scans
D. Port scans

156. Quarantine and isolation are both common options in what phase of the incident response  process?
A. Detection
B. Analysis
C. Containment
D. Eradication

157 . Rick is reviewing Linux system permissions and finds a directory that is set to: -rwxr--r--   Who will have access to the directory to read the file?
A. The user
B. The user and their group
C. All users
D. No users except root 

158. Beena is granted access to her organization’s customer information because she is a data  steward; her access occurs between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., and it is occurring from a known  workstation that has passed security checks. What type of access control scheme is in use?
A. Rule- based access control
B. Role- based access control
C. Mandatory access control
D. Attribute- based access control 

159. Juan wants to use his IDS to detect anomalous behavior. What type of detection technique  would most effectively help him identify unknown new attacks?
A. Trend analysis
B. Signature- based detection
C. IP- based detection
D. Port- based detection 

160. Geenah wants to identify where Wi- Fi signals are weakest in her building. What should she  create to visually display signal coverage and strength throughout her building?
A. A war walk
B. A spectrum analysis
C. An SSID plot
D. A heatmap 

161. What term describes the concept that individuals should be given the minimum permissions  necessary to accomplish their role or tasks?
A. Zero trust
B. Provisioning
C. Least privilege
D. Deprovisioning

162. Joanna wants to explain the advantages of automation for user and resource provisioning.  Which of the following is not an advantage of automation over manual processes for  provisioning?
A. Automation ensures consistency in the provisioning process.
B. Automation provides faster provisioning.
C. Automation decreases mistakes in provisioning.
D. Automation provides auditability of provisioning. 

163. Bug bounty programs are an example of what type of program?
A. Contracted penetration testing
B. Responsible disclosure
C. Third- party bounty
D. Trusted threat 

164. Jack is hardening a Cisco switch based on the CIS IOS benchmark. As part of the configu- ration process, he configures settings including ntp authenticate and   ntp trusted- key. Why would Jack configure this on his network switches?
A. To ensure that the switch has Network Terminal Protocol enabled
B. To prevent attackers from modifying logs
C. To prevent attackers from capturing network time traffic
D. To ensure that network time is from a trusted source 

165. Tony wants to use a cellular connection to transfer data to his organization. What should  he do to ensure that his data is as secure as possible?
A. Make sure he is connected to his cellular provider’s towers.
B. Fully patch the phone.
C. Use a VPN.
D. Deploy a security baseline to the phone. 

166. The hospital that Isabella works for leverages threat information from the Health- ISAC  as part of their security team’s work. What type of threat information provider is the  Health- ISAC?
A. An OSINT provider
B. A dark web source
C. An information- sharing organization
D. A proprietary threat data source

167 . Mark presents his driver’s license as part of the creation of his user account for a secure  online service. What process requires this type of information to validate ownership of an  identity?
A. Attestation
B. Provisioning
C. SSO
D. De- provisioning

168. Hector is concerned about Bluetooth security. Which of the following is a legitimate secu- rity concern about Bluetooth?
A. It is not encrypted.
B. Bluetooth is only useful at short range.
C. Bluejacking may occur.
D. Bluetooth devices can be fingerprinted. 

169. Privileged access management (PAM) tools provide functions for enterprise access  management. Which of the following is not a common PAM component?
A. Just- in- time permissions
B. Password vaulting
C. Ephemeral credentials
D. Password persistence 

170. What role do port scans play in asset tracking?
A. Enumeration of assets.
B. They provide OSINT.
C. Version tracking for assets.
D. They do not play a role in asset tracking. 

171. A fingerprint is an example of what type of authentication factor?
A. Something you know
B. Something you have
C. Something you are
D. Somewhere you are 

172. Dana wants to ensure that her software acquisition process for open source software is as  secure as possible. What should she to do validate the security of the open source software?
A. Ensure that the software source code is escrowed.
B. Review the source code for the software.
C. Check dependencies for known vulnerabilities.
D. Purchase the software from a software vendor. 

173. Sharon wants to implement WPA3 Enterprise. What technology will she need to use for  authorization after wireless devices associate with access points?
A. LDAP
B. 802.1X
C. Kerberos
D. SAML

174. What purpose do the password history and password minimum age settings have in  Windows?
A. To prevent attackers from resetting passwords
B. To prevent brute- force attacks
C. To prevent password reuse
D. To ensure proper password expiration 

175. A CVSS score is based on what three metric groups of data?
A. Scope, Impact, Environmental
B. Base, Temporal, and Environmental
C. Risk, Threat, Impact
D. Time, Risk, Scope 

176. Quentin wants to decommission solid- state drives (SSDs). What process should he follow if  he wants to be absolutely certain that the data cannot be recovered?
A. Zero wiping
B. Destruction
C. Sanitation
D. Reformatting

117. What challenge is commonly encountered when organizations want to harden IoT devices?
A. The devices have limited security options.
B. The devices cannot run current operating systems.
C. Industry benchmarks for security are not up- to- date.
D. Central management tools only support new devices. 

178. Guillermo wants to establish his organization’s security baseline for Linux systems. After  selecting the CIS benchmark that best matches his organization’s commonly used Linux dis- tribution, what should he do next?
A. Deploy the benchmark to a test system to see how it performs in normal use.
B. Install SELinux to allow for the baseline to be implemented fully.
C. Review the baseline to determine any settings that are not a good fit for the   organization’s usage.
D. Identify the deployment method for the baseline to the Linux systems. 

179. Renee has implemented WPA3 Enterprise, and she wants to use an EAP protocol for secure  authentication. What EAP version should she implement?
A. LEAP
B. EAP- TLS
C. EAP- PSK
D. EAP- PWD 

180. The organization that Chris works for has recently acquired another company. As part of  the acquisition, Chris is preparing to address the data that the newly acquired company used, including setting up rules to handle it in his data loss prevention (DLP) system. What  step is commonly required prior to data being protected by a DLP system?
A. Hashing the data and creating signatures
B. Encrypting the data
C. Classifying and tagging the data
D. Applying a mandatory access control scheme to the data 

181. Mark wants to have a way to determine if attackers have modified files on a critical web  application server. What type of tool should he deploy if he wants to be able to check for  changes of this nature?
A. Drive encryption
B. File availability monitoring
C. File encryption
D. File integrity monitoring 

182. Katie’s organization uses an IoC feed that helps her to identify new threats. A recent feed  update includes the following hash for Emotet malware: cecc5bba6193d744837e689e68bc25c43eda7235   Where is Katie most likely going to be able to use this hash to identify potential attacks?
A. Via her EDR tools
B. Via her firewall
C. Via her system logs
D. All of the above 

183. Which of the following tools is best suited to deploying and maintaining a secure baseline  for Windows systems for an entire enterprise?
A. PowerShell
B. Group Policy
C. Manual configuration
D. Script- based deployments 

184. Perry wants to ensure that an unsecure protocol is secured when in transit through his local  network. What solution could he adopt to ensure that this traffic is protected?
A. Use SD- WAN.
B. Wrap the protocol using TLS.
C. Encrypt all files that are sent using AES.
D. Encrypt all files that are sent using SHA-1

185. Annie wants to implement a passwordless authentication system. Which of the following  would not meet her needs?
A. Windows Hello
B. A PIN- based factor
C. A cell- phone authenticator application
D. A FIDO2 security key

186. Laura wants to harden an ICS and SCADA devices her organization uses to manage critical  infrastructure. The devices are old and unsupported, without recent updates. What hard- ening techniques are most likely to be available to her to help deal with these devices?
A. Isolation
B. Segmentation
C. Adding host- based firewalls
D. Configuring host- based IPS

187. Bob uses an IoC feed to allow his SIEM to identify and correlate common malicious  activity. What phase of the incident response process best describes this?
A. Preparation
B. Detection
C. Containment
D. Eradication 

188. Yael’s organization has received a very convincing phishing email that has resulted in staff  clicking on a malicious link. If Yael can’t remove the email from inboxes, which of the fol- lowing options will allow her to quickly prevent users from being compromised?
A. Set up DNS filtering using the URL from the email.
B. Disable the organization’s Internet connection.
C. Block inbound traffic from the phishing email’s source IP.
D. Enable reputation services for the email. 

189. Nick is reviewing his system configurations and notes that logon event auditing settings on  the system are set as shown in the example figure. What concern should he express about  the setting?
A. Log files may fill up quickly.
B. Successful authentication will not be logged.
C. Failed authentication will not be logged.
D. Policy may not be enforced properly. 

190. Brian is reviewing vulnerabilities discovered as part of a vulnerability scan. He sees a score  for a vulnerability of 3.
0. What does he know about this vulnerability based on its score?
A. It is a high- severity vulnerability and should be addressed quickly.
B. It is a low- severity vulnerability and may not need to be addressed.
C. It is a medium- severity vulnerability and should be reviewed before being addressed.
D. It is a critical vulnerability and should be addressed immediately. 

191. Nick wants to allow email servers to validate that email from his servers is actually from  them. What email security framework should he adopt to allow this?
A. DKIM
B. DMARC
C. SPF
D. SMTP 

192. Jack wants to configure a Linux system to use mandatory access controls. What tool should  he select that is commonly used to provide this functionality?
A. Group Policy
B. CIS benchmarks
C. SELinux
D. Containerization 

193. What process is commonly used with open source tools to ensure that dependencies  are secure?
A. Static analysis
B. Package monitoring
C. Fagan testing
D. Port scanning 

194. Yarif wants to harden his SaaS cloud infrastructure. Which of the following hardening tech- niques is he most likely to be able to implement in an SaaS environment?
A. Host- based firewalls
B. Least privilege
C. Operating system security configuration
D. Physical security for systems

195. Which of the following is not a technical control used to address a vulnerability?
A. Insurance
B. Patching
C. Segmentation
D. Firewalling 

196. Kelsey’s organization has established an asset and inventory management process for  servers. Which of the following is not a common part of asset tracking?
A. Data classification
B. Identifying owners
C. Documenting acquisition dates
D. Sanitization

197. Kirk needs to allow system administrators to access root passwords in emergencies. What  type of solution could he implement to allow them to check out passwords when needed  while also tracking those checkouts and requiring the passwords to be changed after use?
A. EAP
B. Multifactor authentication
C. An enterprise password manager
D. Passwordless 

198. Selah wants to prevent staff in her organization from visiting malicious websites while  they’re in the office. If she wants to use the most up- to- date threat data, what web filter  capability should she take advantage of?
A. Agent- based web filtering
B. Reputation tools
C. A centralized web filtering proxy
D. URL scanning 

199. Joe has configured ACLs on a Cisco network device. The ACL he has configured is as  follows: interface ethernet0  ip access- group 111 in ! access- list 111 deny tcp any any eq http access- list 111 permit ip any any access- list 111 deny tcp any any eq https   What does this ACL do?
A. Blocks HTTP traffic
B. Blocks both HTTP and HTTPS traffic
C. Prevents web application attacks
D. Allows for inspection of web traffic

200. The use of machine learning and algorithms to analyze user behavior in order to identify  anomalous behavior is a feature of what specialized type of tool?
A. UEBA
B. SIEM
C. EDR
D. DMARC 

201. What password best practice is supported by the ability to set password history in  Windows?
A. Password length
B. Password complexity
C. Password reuse
D. Password age 

202. Donna is reviewing a script that was found on a Windows system. What does the following  script do? $ip = "10.1.1.101" $svc_name = "WinDefend" get- service - ComputerName $ip | Where- Object {$_.Name - eq $svc_name} |  Stop- Service | Set- Service - StartupType Disabled
A. Stops the Windows Defender service
B. Starts the Windows Defender service
C. Stops and disables the Windows Defender service
D. Enables the Windows Defender service 

203. Batu has been asked to build scripts that will allow automated ticket creation through a  new help desk tool for his organization. As he considers the lifespan of the scripts, which of  the following concerns should he address to ensure that the scripts do not become an issue  over time?
A. Their initial creation cost
B. Their ongoing supportability
C. Existing technical debt
D. Whether they’re a single point of failure 

204. Alex is responsible for his organization’s vulnerability management program. A recent vul- nerability scan shows that IoT devices that are used for building automation are vulnerable  to a known issue with their built- in web server. After reviewing the manufacturer’s website,  Alex is unable to find an updated operating system or software update. He chooses to move  the IoT devices to a protected VLAN and require a jump server to access them. What vul- nerability remediation option has he used?
A. A compensating control
B. Patching
C. Insurance
D. An exemption

205. Wiping a drive and reinstalling from known good media is an example of what incident  response option?
A. Recovery
B. Containment
C. Eradication
D. Root cause elimination 

206. Melissa’s company wants to contract with a third- party organization to oversee their  hardware decommissioning and disposal process. What should she ask the company to do  to prove that the disposal process was done properly?
A. Certification.
B. Follow a data retention policy.
C. Provide photographic evidence.
D. Keep a log of devices.
207 . Sally wants to identify a way to prioritize vulnerabilities discovered by her vulnerability  scanner. Which of the following options will allow her to prioritize vulnerabilities effec- tively while taking her own organization’s needs into account?

A. Use CVSS base and temporal metrics.
B. Use a qualitative risk assessment process.
C. Use CVSS scores that include environmental metrics.
D. Use a quantitative risk assessment process. 

208. Henry wants to prevent password reuse outside of his organization from impacting the  accounts his staff use. Which of the following password settings can have the largest impact  if passwords are reused outside of his organization and they are breached due to a security  issue at the third- party site or service?
A. Password expiration policies
B. Password length policies
C. Password complexity policies
D. Password minimum age policies 

209. Fuzzing is an example of what type of code analysis?
A. Static analysis
B. Code review
C. Pentesting
D. Dynamic analysis 

210. Steve’s organization is concerned about the potential for devices they are purchasing to be  modified before they reach the organization. Which of the following solutions will help the  most in preventing this potential issue?
A. Buying from a value- added reseller
B. Buying directly from the OEM
C. Buying from a gray market seller
D. Buying from a local reseller 

211. What password setting has the greatest impact when attempting to prevent brute- force  password cracking?
A. Password history settings
B. Password length increases
C. Password expiration settings
D. Password length decreases 

212. Jill wants to identify a potential network- based distributed denial- of- service (DDoS) attack.  Which of the following log sources is most likely to provide information that will allow her  to identify the attack?
A. OS- specific security logs
B. Endpoint logs
C. IDS/IPS logs
D. Authentication logs 

213. Jake has configured WPA3 Personal for his network. What feature makes WPA3 more  secure than WPA2’s PSK mode?
A. SAE
B. PKI
C. TLS
D. EAP 

214. Molly wants to harden embedded systems in her environment. Which of the following  options is most likely to be available?
A. Hardening benchmarks.
B. Central management tools.
C. Add- on security software.
D. None; embedded systems have very limited hardening options. 

215. Jean wants to use an identity proofing process as part of her user account creation process.  Which of the following is most likely to be useful for identity proofing?
A. A Google email account
B. A state or nationally issued ID
C. A Facebook account
D. A credit card
