1. Brent’s organization is profiling threat actors that may target their infrastructure and systems. 
Which of the following is most likely a motivation for a nation- state actor?
A. Financial gain
B. Blackmail
C. Espionage
D. Blackmail
2. Ahmed is a sales manager with a major insurance company. He has received an email that is 
encouraging him to click on a link and fill out a survey. He is suspicious of the email, but it 
does mention a major insurance association, and that makes him think it might be legitimate. 
Which of the following best describes this attack?
A. Phishing
B. Social engineering
C. Spear phishing
D. Trojan horse
3. You are a security administrator for a medium- sized bank. You have discovered a piece of 
software on your bank’s database server that is not supposed to be there. It appears that the 
software will begin deleting database files if a specific employee is terminated. What best 
describes this?
A. Worm
B. Logic bomb
C. Trojan horse
D. Rootkit
4. The company that Yarif works for uses a third- party IT support company to manage their 
cloud- hosted web application infrastructure. How can Yarif best address concerns about 
potential threat vectors via the managed service provider (MSP)?
A. Conduct regular vulnerability scans.
B. Use shared incident response exercises to prepare.
C. Ensure appropriate contractual coverage for issues.
D. Require the MSP to have an annual pentest.
5. Jill’s organization has received an advisory about a flaw that could allow software running 
on a virtual machine to execute code on the system that is running the VM hypervisor. What 
type of vulnerability is this?
A. A resource reuse issue
B. A VM escape issue
C. A jailbreaking issue
D. A sideloading issueChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  33
6. Helen is concerned about ransomware attacks against workstations that she is responsible 
for. Which of the following hardening options is best suited to protecting her organization 
from ransomware?
A. Installing host- based firewalls
B. Installing endpoint protection software
C. Installing a host- based IPS software
D. Removing unnecessary software
7. The company that Gary works for has deployed a wireless network. Which of the following 
network options is the most secure?
A. WPA- 2 Personal
B. WPA- 3
C. WPA- 2 Enterprise
D. WPA- 4
8. What type of attack depends on the attacker entering JavaScript into a text area that is 
intended for users to enter text that will be viewed by other users?
A. SQL injection
B. Clickjacking
C. Cross- site scripting
D. Bluejacking
9. Unusual outbound network traffic, geographical irregularities, and increases in database read 
volumes are all examples of what key element of threat intelligence?
A. Predictive analysis
B. OSINT
C. Indicators of compromise
D. Threat maps
10. Julie wants to conduct a replay attack. What type of attack is most commonly associated 
with successful replay attacks?
A. SQL injection
B. An on- path attack
C. Brute force
D. A DDoS
11. Valerie is investigating a recent incident and checks /var/log on a Linux system. She finds 
the audit.log file empty despite the system uptime showing over a month of uptime. What 
has she most likely encountered?
A. A wiped log
B. A recent reboot
C. A system error
D. Incorrect permissions to view the log34 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
12. Jack purchases ads on a site that staff members of his target organization frequently visit in 
preparation for a penetration test. Once his ads start to display, he replaces the underlying 
code with attack code that redirects visitors to a login page that matches the organization’s 
own internal website. What type of attack has Jack attempted?
A. A misinformation attack
B. A watering hole attack
C. A disinformation attack
D. A business website compromise attack
13. Which of the following is not a common concern related to the hardware vendor 
supply chain?
A. Malware preinstalled on hardware
B. Lack of availability of hardware
C. Third- party hardware modifications
D. Malicious firmware modifications
14. Ben wants to conduct a credential replay attack. What should he do first to enable 
the attack?
A. Create a phishing email.
B. Conduct an on- path attack.
C. Use a brute- force password attack.
D. Conduct an injection attack.
15. Nick is assessing internal threat actors and considering what motivations are likely to drive 
them. Which of the following is the most likely motivation for an internal threat actor?
A. Espionage
B. Blackmail
C. War
D. Political beliefs
16. Yasmine is reviewing the software installed on a client’s computer and notices that multiple 
browser toolbars, weather applications, and social media applications were preinstalled. 
What term is most commonly used to describe this software?
A. MSPs
B. Bloatware
C. Ransomware
D. RootwareChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  35
1 7. Ilya is reviewing logs and notices that one of his staff has logged in from his home location in 
China at 2 p.m., and then logged in from the United Kingdom an hour later. What indicator 
of compromise should he flag this as?
A. Concurrent session usage
B. Resource inaccessibility
C. Impossible travel
D. Segmentation
18. Adam’s organization has deployed RFID badges as part of their access control system. Adam 
is required to enter a 6- digit PIN when he uses his RFID badge and dislikes the additional 
step. What type of attack is the PIN intended to stop?
A. Piggybacking
B. On- path
C. Concurrent access
D. Badge cloning
19. Jen recently received an email that appeared to be from one of her vendors asking for a 
change in the method of payment to another account. She normally works with mike_ 
smith@example.com, but noticed that the email was from mike_smith@examp1e.com 
on further review. What type of social engineering attack is this?
A. Vishing
B. Business email compromise
C. Smishing
D. Pretexting
20. What is the primary concern for security professionals about legacy hardware?
A. Its likelihood of failure
B. Lack of patches and updates
C. Lack of vendor support
D. Inability to support modern protocols
21. Coleen is the web security administrator for an online auction website. A small number of 
users are complaining that when they visit the website it does not appear to be the correct 
site. Coleen checks and she can visit the site without any problem, even from computers 
outside the network. She also checks the web server log and there is no record of those users 
ever connecting. Which of the following might best explain this?
A. Typo squatting
B. SQL injection
C. Cross- site scripting
D. Cross- site request forgery36 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
22. The organization that Mike works in finds that one of their domains is directing traffic 
to a competitor’s website. When Mike checks, the domain information has been changed, 
including the contact and other administrative details for the domain. If the domain had not 
expired, what has most likely occurred?
A. DNS hijacking
B. An on- path attack
C. Domain hijacking
D. A zero- day attack
23. Lucia’s organization has adopted open source software provided by a third- party vendor 
as part of their web application. What concern should she express about her software 
supply chain?
A. Lack of vendor support
B. Lack of code auditability
C. Lack of control over open source dependencies
D. Lack of updates
24. Alice wants to prevent server- side request forgery (SSRF) attacks. Which of the following will 
not be helpful for preventing them?
A. Removing all SQL code from submitted HTTP queries
B. Blocking hostnames like 127.0.01 and localhost
C. Blocking sensitive URLs like /admin
D. Applying allow list–based input filters
25. Tracy wants to protect desktop and laptop systems in her organization from network attacks. 
She wants to deploy a tool that can actively stop attacks based on signatures, heuristics, and 
anomalies. What type of tool should she deploy?
A. A firewall
B. Antimalware
C. HIDS
D. HIPS
26. Mahmoud is responsible for managing security at a large university. He has just performed a 
threat analysis for the network, and based on past incidents and studies of similar networks, 
he has determined that the most prevalent threat to his network are attackers who wish to 
breach the system, simply to prove they can or for some low- level crime, such as changing a 
grade. Which term best describes this type of attacker?
A. Hacktivist
B. Nation- state
C. Insider
D. Unskilled attackerChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  37
2 7. How is phishing different from general spam?
A. It is sent only to specific targeted individuals.
B. It is intended to acquire credentials or other data.
C. It is sent via SMS.
D. It includes malware in the message.
28. Selah includes a question in her procurement request- for- proposal process that asks how 
long the vendor has been in business and how many existing clients the vendor has. What 
common issue is this practice intended to help prevent?
A. Supply chain security issues
B. Lack of vendor support
C. Outsourced code development issues
D. System integration problems
29. Frank is a network administrator for a small college. He discovers that several machines 
on his network are infected with malware. That malware is sending a flood of packets to a 
target external to the network. What best describes this attack?
A. SYN flood
B. DDoS
C. Botnet
D. Backdoor
30. A sales manager at your company is complaining about slow performance on his computer. 
When you thoroughly investigate the issue, you find spyware on his computer. He insists that 
the only thing he has downloaded recently was a freeware stock trading application. What 
would best explain this situation?
A. Logic bomb
B. Trojan
C. Rootkit
D. Macro virus
31. What threat actor is most likely to be motivated by political beliefs?
A. Hacktivists
B. Organized crime
C. Unskilled attackers
D. Insider threats
32. What type of threat actors are most likely to have a profit motive for their malicious 
activities?
A. State actors
B. Hacktivists
C. Unskilled attackers
D. Organized crime38 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
33. You have noticed that when in a crowded area, you sometimes get a stream of unwanted text 
messages. The messages end when you leave the area. What describes this attack?
A. Bluejacking
B. Bluesnarfing
C. Evil twin
D. Rogue access point
34. Dennis uses an on- path attack to cause a system to send traffic to his system and then for -
wards it to the actual server the traffic is intended for. What information will be visible from 
his system as it passed through it?
A. All traffic meant for remote systems
B. All traffic meant for local systems
C. Only unencrypted traffic
D. Only unencrypted traffic meant for his system
35. Andrea recently received a phone call claiming to be from her bank. The caller asked for 
information including her account number and Social Security number to validate her iden-
tity. What type of social engineering attack was Andrea the target of?
A. Smishing
B. Brand impersonation
C. A watering hole attack
D. A business email compromise attack
36. Jake’s vulnerability scanner reports that the software his organization is running is vulner -
able to a cryptographic downgrade attack. What concern should Jake have about this poten-
tial issue?
A. Attackers may be able to force use of a weaker encryption algorithm, making data easier 
to access.
B. Attackers may be able to force use of weaker hashing, making it easier to recover 
passwords.
C. Attackers may be able to force use of older versions of the software, including previously 
patched vulnerabilities.
D. Attackers may be able to force encryption to be turned off, causing information to be 
sent in plain text.
3 7. Rick has three major categories of data and applications in use in his virtualization environ-
ment: highly sensitive; business sensitive; and unclassified, or public information. He wants 
to ensure that data and applications of different sensitivity are not compromised in the event 
of a breach. What mitigation technique is best suited to this type of requirement?
A. Application allow lists
B. Monitoring
C. Least privilege
D. SegmentationChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  39
38. Users in your company report someone has been calling their extension and claiming to 
be doing a survey for a large vendor. Based on the questions asked in the survey, you sus-
pect that this is a scam to elicit information from your company’s employees. What best 
describes this?
A. Spear phishing
B. Vishing
C. War dialing
D. Robocalling
39. As part of a zero- trust environment, Quentin is given rights that he needs only when he needs 
them through a checkout process and they are then removed when he is done. What mitiga-
tion technique best describes this solution?
A. Segmentation
B. Isolation
C. Least privilege
D. Configuration enforcement
40. While performing a scan for wireless networks, Lisa discovers a network that does not use 
WPA- 2 or WPA- 3. What network traffic information can she recover from devices using this 
network?
A. All network traffic
B. Network packet headers, but not packet data
C. Network packet data, but not headers
D. DNS and DHCP queries, but not network packet data
41. Jared is responsible for network security at his company. He has discovered behavior on one 
computer that certainly appears to be a virus. He has even identified a file he thinks might be 
the virus. However, using three separate antivirus programs, he finds that none can detect the 
file. Which of the following is most likely to be occurring?
A. The computer has a RAT.
B. The computer has a zero- day exploit.
C. The computer has a worm.
D. The computer has a rootkit.
42. John has discovered that an attacker is trying to get network passwords by using software 
that attempts a series of passwords with a minor change each time the password is tried. 
What type of attack is this?
A. Dictionary
B. Rainbow table
C. Brute force
D. Session hijacking40 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
43. Farès is the network security administrator for a company that creates advanced routers and 
switches. He has discovered that his company’s networks have been subjected to a series of 
advanced attacks by an attacker sponsored by a government over a period of time. What best 
describes this attack?
A. DDoS
B. Brute force
C. Nation- state
D. Disassociation attack
44. What type of information is phishing not commonly intended to acquire?
A. Passwords
B. Email addresses
C. Credit card numbers
D. Personal information
45. Scott discovers that malware has been installed on one of the systems he is responsible for. 
Shortly afterward passwords used by the user that the system is assigned to are discovered to 
be in use by attackers. What type of malicious program should Scott look for on the compro-
mised system?
A. A rootkit
B. A keylogger
C. A worm
D. None of the above
46. Nick purchases his network devices through a gray market supplier that imports them into 
his region without an official relationship with the network device manufacturer. What risk 
should Nick identify when he assesses his supply chain risk?
A. Lack of vendor support
B. Lack of warranty coverage
C. Inability to validate the source of the devices
D. All of the above
4 7. Naomi is preparing a laptop for a traveling salesperson who frequently needs to connect to 
untrusted hotel networks. What hardening technique can she use to provide the greatest  
protection against network- based attacks on untrusted networks?
A. Install an endpoint detection and response tool.
B. Install a host- based firewall.
C. Install an extended detection and response tool.
D. Install a disk encryption tool.Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  41
48. While conducting a vulnerability scan of her network, Susan discovers that a marketing staff 
member has set up their own server running a specialized marketing tool. After inquiring 
about the server, which is vulnerable due to missing patches, Susan discovers that the team 
set it up themselves because of a need that was not met by existing tools. What type of threat 
actor has Susan encountered?
A. An unskilled attacker
B. An insider threat
C. Shadow IT
D. A hacktivist
49. Which of the following indicators is most commonly associated with a denial- of- 
service attack?
A. Resource inaccessibility
B. Impossible travel
C. Missing logs
D. Blocked content
50. Henry wants to decommission a server that was used to store sensitive data. What step 
should he take to ensure the decommissioning process protects the organization’s data?
A. Reformat the drives as part of the decommissioning process.
B. Physically destroy the drives as part of the decommissioning process.
C. Remove the system from organizational inventory as part of the decommissioning 
process.
D. Physically destroy the entire system as part of the decommissioning process.
51. Renee has a large number of workstations and servers in her corporate environment and 
wants to more effectively monitor logs for them. What solution from the following list is best 
suited to identifying and alerting on issues in a large- scale environment?
A. Centralized logging
B. A SIEM
C. An IPS
D. An EDR
52. Patrick is reviewing potential attack surfaces for his small business and recently deployed 
new networked printers for each of his three locations. What should his first action be to 
begin to properly secure their web management interfaces?
A. Update the firmware.
B. Change their default IP address.
C. Change the default administrator password.
D. Disable unnecessary services.42 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
53. Paul has performed an nmap scan of a new network connected device. He notices TCP ports 
22, 80, and 443 are open. If his hardening guidelines only allow encrypted management 
interfaces, what port or ports should he disable from this list?
A. 22
B. 80
C. 22 and 80
D. 80 and 443
54. The following graphic shows a network connection between two systems, and then a 
network- based attack. What type of attack is shown?
Communications trafﬁc
Attacker -
controlled
systemCommunications trafﬁcCommunications trafﬁc
A. A denial- of- service attack
B. A SQL injection attack
C. An on- path attack
D. A directory traversal attack
55. Which of the following protocols is most commonly associated with credential relaying 
attacks?
A. RDP
B. NTLM
C. SQL
D. TLS
56. After a recent laptop theft, Jaime’s organization is worried about data breaches driven by lost 
devices. What endpoint hardening technique is best suited to preventing this?
A. Encryption
B. Host- based IPS
C. Disabling ports and protocols
D. Changing default passwordsChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  43
5 7. Derek wants to conduct a birthday attack against a digital signature. Which of the following 
best describes the process he would need to take to achieve his goal?
A. He needs to prepare both a correct and a malicious document and find ways to modify 
the correct document until its encryption matches the malicious document.
B. He needs to make sure all dates match in both a correct and a malicious document.
C. He needs to ensure that the file length and creation date match for both a correct docu-
ment and a malicious document.
D. He needs to prepare both a correct and a malicious document, then find ways to modify 
the malicious document until its hash matches the hash of the correct document.
58. Ashley’s organization has recently come under attack and has suffered a DNS outage. As she 
investigated, she found that requests to her DNS servers were sent to open DNS resolvers 
using spoofed IP addresses with requests that would result in very large responses from the 
DNS resolvers to the IP addresses that appeared to be making the request. What type of 
attack targeted Ashley’s organization?
A. A reflected DDoS
B. A DNS flood
C. A mirrored DDoS
D. A supersized query attack
59. What term is used to describe the problem when two files have the same hash?
A. A birthday attack
B. A collision
C. A bingo
D. A match- the- hash attack
60. Kara wants to protect against the most common means of firmware- based exploits. Which of 
the following is not a common firmware defense mechanism for the vendors of devices that 
use firmware?
A. Using signed firmware updates
B. Using input validation for user input
C. Encrypting firmware
D. Code review processes for firmware
61. Annie’s organization has been facing negative social media campaigns for months and is 
struggling to address them. Numerous bot posts about the company are providing incorrect 
information about the company. What type of attack is Annie’s company facing?
A. A misinformation campaign
B. A pretexting campaign
C. An impersonation campaign
D. A disinformation campaign44 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
62. Ines is concerned about messaging through tools like Discord and Slack as attack vectors. 
What can she do to most effectively limit the attack surface for threats like this?
A. Deploy EDR tools to all workstations and devices.
B. Deploy an organizational communication tool or instance instead of using public tools.
C. Deploy messaging- aware firewalls.
D. Deploy messaging- aware IPS systems.
63. Ana’s vendor has informed her that the hardware her organization uses is considered end- of- 
life. What should Ana do?
A. Identify replacement hardware and purchase it immediately.
B. Purchase an extended support contract from a third- party vendor.
C. Begin plans to phase out the equipment before it reaches end- of- support.
D. Install final patches and then isolate the hardware from the network.
64. What threat vector is most impacted by how Windows handles autorun.inf files?
A. Removable devices
B. Open service ports
C. Unsecure Wi- Fi
D. Watering hole attacks
65. Raj wants to reduce the attack surface for a newly purchased laptop. What hardening 
technique will help him reduce the possibility of remote exploits while also decreasing the 
amount of ongoing patch management he needs to do for the system?
A. Encrypt the system’s boot drive.
B. Install EDR software.
C. Remove unnecessary software.
D. Change any default passwords.
66. Mary has discovered that a web application used by her company does not always handle 
multithreading properly, particularly when multiple threads access the same variable. This 
could allow an attacker who discovered this vulnerability to exploit it and crash the server. 
What type of error has Mary discovered?
A. Buffer overflow
B. Logic bomb
C. Race conditions
D. Improper error handling
6 7. Allan wants to detect brute- force physical attacks. What should he do if he wants to detect 
the broadest range of physical attacks?
A. Deploy a monitored security camera system.
B. Hire a guard to patrol the facility.
C. Conduct regular inspections of the facility.
D. Set up an alarm system.Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  45
68. Which of the following is not a common threat vector associated with SMS- based attacks?
A. Malicious links
B. SMS- based phishing
C. SMS- delivered images
D. MFA exploits
69. During a regular review of logs, Jennifer notices that a regularly scheduled script that copies 
files to another server every hour has run multiple times within the last hour. What indicator 
of compromise should she categorize this as?
A. Concurrent session use
B. Out- of- cycle logging
C. Missing logs
D. Impossible travel
70. Pete uses a technique that injects code into memory used by another process to allow him to 
control what the host program does. What is this technique called for Windows dynamically 
linked libraries?
A. WinBuff attacks
B. DLL injection
C. A SYRINGE attack
D. A memory traversal attack
71. Kathleen wants to control network traffic between subnets using her Cisco network devices. 
What built- in capability can she use to allow or deny traffic based on port, protocol, and IP 
address?
A. A HIPS
B. ACLs
C. Least privilege lists
D. VLANs
72. What is the primary purpose of encryption as a control in enterprise environments?
A. To preserve availability
B. To support physical security
C. To preserve least privilege
D. To preserve confidentiality
73. What type of attack exploits the trust that a website has for an authenticated user to attack 
that website by spoofing requests from the trusted user?
A. Cross- site scripting
B. Cross- site request forgery
C. Bluejacking
D. Evil twin46 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
74. Dana wants to use documented and published IoCs as part of her threat- hunting activities. 
What should she look for to integrate with her SIEM or other security tools?
A. Threat feeds
B. A real- time blackhole list
C. A vulnerability feed
D. An IP reputation feed
75. The malware that Joseph is working to counter has copied itself to workstations across his 
environment due to a central, shared fileshare. What type of malware is Joseph most likely 
fighting?
A. A Trojan
B. A virus
C. A keylogger
D. A rootkit
76. You are responsible for software testing at Acme Corporation. You want to check all soft-
ware for bugs that might be used by an attacker to gain entrance into the software or your 
network. You have discovered a web application that would allow a user to attempt to put a 
64- bit value into a 4- byte integer variable. What is this type of flaw?
A. Memory overflow
B. Buffer overflow
C. Variable overflow
D. Integer overflow
7 7. The company that Keith works for uses a backoff algorithm that increases the time between 
when login attempts are allowed after each failed login. Keith has recently attempted to log 
in and found that his account is not able to log in again for 15 minutes. What should the 
security administrators at Keith’s organization do to find potential indicators of malicious 
activity?
A. Review authentication logs.
B. Interview Keith about his recent logins.
C. Change Keith’s password and check error logs.
D. Report an incident and start the incident response process.
78. Grayson’s organization is concerned about environmental attacks against their datacenter. 
What type of monitoring is best suited to detecting environmental attacks in a scenario 
like this?
A. Video cameras
B. Intrusion alarm systems
C. Temperature monitoring sensors
D. Log analysisChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  47
79. Jack’s team in HR is paying for an SaaS tool using their HR expense account credit cards 
without the knowledge of central IT. What type of threat actor does this make Jack’s 
HR team?
A. Shadow IT
B. An inadvertent threat
C. Internal espionage actors
D. An insider threat
80. Amanda is assessing the potential for issues with her organization’s recently adopted IaaS 
vendor. What cloud vulnerability should she worry about if her system administrators do not 
effectively manage security groups in AWS?
A. Insecure APIs
B. Misconfigurations
C. Malicious insiders
D. MFA- based attacks
81. Jared’s organization runs Linux servers, and recent vulnerability scans show that the servers 
are vulnerable to an issue that is described as follows:
CVE- 2018- 5703: tcp_v6_syn_recv_sock function in net/ipv6/tcp_ipv6.c in 
the Linux kernel through 4.14.11 allows attackers to cause a denial of 
service (slab out- of- bounds write)
 What is Jared’s best option to remediate a kernel vulnerability like this?
A. Patch the application.
B. Install a HIPS with appropriate rules.
C. Segment the systems away from the Internet to reduce risk.
D. Patch the operating system.
82. What is the likely outcome of a cryptographic collision attack?
A. Attackers can decrypt a file without the private key.
B. Two files that have the same encrypted output but are different files.
C. Two files that both have the same hash but have different contents.
D. Attackers can decrypt the file without the public key.
83. Sarah is working with a small business and noticed that they have a consumer- grade wireless 
router serving their business. What common hardening checklist item should she validate first 
as part of securing the device?
A. Removing unnecessary software
B. Running a vulnerability scan
C. Ensuring the default password has been changed
D. Ensuring that unneeded ports have been disabled48 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
84. What technique most effectively prevents resource reuse concerns for storage in a virtual 
environment?
A. Firmware updates
B. Volume encryption
C. Minimizing cluster size
D. Reformatting drives
85. Michelle is modeling threat actor motivation for her organization and wants to describe ran-
somware actors. What motivation is not commonly associated with ransomware?
A. Data exfiltration
B. Blackmail
C. Revenge
D. Financial gain
86. Which of the following is commonly used in a distributed denial- of- service (DDoS) attack?
A. Phishing
B. Adware
C. Botnet
D. Trojan
8 7. Amanda discovers that a member of her organization’s staff has installed a remote- access 
Trojan on their accounting software server and has been accessing it remotely. What type of 
threat has she discovered?
A. Zero- day
B. Insider threat
C. Misconfiguration
D. Weak encryption
88. Postings from Russian agents during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign to Facebook and 
Twitter are an example of what type of effort?
A. Impersonation
B. Disinformation
C. Asymmetric warfare
D. A watering hole attack
89. Which of the following threat actors is most likely to be associated with an advanced persis-
tent threat (APT)?
A. Hacktivists
B. Nation- state actors
C. Unskilled attacker
D. Insider threatsChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  49
90. Erica wants to conduct an amplified DDoS attack against a system. What key step is required 
as part of her attack?
A. Reversing the target’s IP address
B. Spoofing the target’s IP address
C. Conducting an on- path attack to send traffic to the target
D. Spoofing responses from the amplification system to the target
91. Daryl is investigating a recent breach of his company’s web server. The attacker used sophis-
ticated techniques and then defaced the website, leaving messages that were denouncing the 
company’s public policies. He and his team are trying to determine the type of actor who 
most likely committed the breach. Based on the information provided, who was the most 
likely threat actor?
A. A script
B. A nation- state
C. Organized crime
D. Hacktivists
92. Which of the following human vectors are most likely to be part of a voice call- based attack?
A. A watering hole attack
B. Pretexting
C. Disinformation
D. BEC
93. What is the primary difference in threat vectors between agent client- based and agentless 
software deployments?
A. Agentless software does not consume resources and thus cannot result in a resource 
consumption- based denial- of- service condition.
B. Client- based software provides a better view of system resources and is able to manage 
its resource consumption better to avoid issues.
C. Agentless software does not have an agent that may be potentially vulnerable to attack.
D. Client- based software allows for greater security because it can be patched.
94. Angela reviews the authentication logs for her website and sees attempts from many different 
accounts using the same set of passwords. What is this attack technique called?
A. Brute forcing
B. Password spraying
C. Limited login attacks
D. Account spinning50 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
95. Charles discovers that an attacker has used a vulnerability in a web application that his 
company runs and has then used that exploit to obtain root privileges on the web server. 
What type of attack has he discovered?
A. Cross- site scripting
B. Privilege escalation
C. A SQL injection
D. A race condition
96. Which of the following best describes a zero- day vulnerability?
A. A vulnerability that the vendor is not yet aware of
B. A vulnerability that has not yet been breached
C. A vulnerability that can be quickly exploited (i.e., in zero days)
D. A vulnerability that will give the attacker brief access (i.e., zero days)
9 7. You have discovered that there are entries in your network’s domain name server that point 
legitimate domains to unknown and potentially harmful IP addresses. What best describes 
this type of attack?
A. A backdoor
B. An APT
C. DNS poisoning
D. A Trojan horse
98. What technique drives image- based threat vectors?
A. Encryption
B. Hashing
C. Forgery
D. Steganography
99. Eric is conducting a penetration test and wants to release a malicious update for an orga-
nization’s application. The organization uses public key encryption to sign updates. What 
does Eric need to deliver an update that systems will accept?
A. The private key for the signing certificate
B. A collision with the hashed value of a legitimate update
C. The public key for the signing certificate
D. A collision with the hashed value of a malicious update
100. Mike is a network administrator with a small financial services company. He has received 
a pop- up window that states his files are now encrypted and he must pay .5 bitcoins to get 
them decrypted. He tries to check the files in question, but their extensions have changed, 
and he cannot open them. What best describes this situation?
A. Mike’s machine has a rootkit.
B. Mike’s machine has ransomware.
C. Mike’s machine has a logic bomb.
D. Mike’s machine has been the target of whaling.Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  51
101. Your company is instituting a new security awareness program. You are responsible for 
educating end users on a variety of threats, including social engineering. Which of the fol-
lowing best defines social engineering?
A. Illegal copying of software
B. Gathering information from discarded manuals and printouts
C. Using people skills to obtain proprietary information
D. Phishing emails
102. What type of malicious actor will typically have the least amount of resources available 
to them?
A. Nation- states
B. Unskilled actor
C. Hacktivists
D. Organized crime
103. Jorge wants to brief his organization’s leadership on common email threat vectors. Which 
of the following common threats should not be in his presentation?
A. Phishing
B. Malware sent via email
C. Email spoofing
D. Cross- site scripting
104. Jared has discovered malware on the workstations of several users. This particular malware 
provides administrative privileges for the workstation to an external hacker. What best 
describes this malware?
A. Trojan horse
B. Logic bomb
C. Multipartite virus
D. Rootkit
105. Michelle discovers that a number of systems throughout her organization are connecting to 
a changing set of remote systems on TCP port 6667. What is the most likely cause of this, if 
she believes the traffic is not legitimate and that the systems are infected with malware?
A. An alternate service port for web traffic
B. Botnet command- and- control via IRC
C. Downloads via a peer- to- peer network
D. Remote- access Trojans
106. Susan performs a vulnerability scan of a small business network and discovers that the 
organization’s consumer- grade wireless router has a vulnerability in its web server. What 
issue should she address in her findings?
A. Firmware patch management
B. Default configuration issues
C. An unsecured administrative account
D. Weak encryption settings52 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
10 7. What type of phishing attack occurs via text messages?
A. Bluejacking
B. Smishing
C. Phonejacking
D. Text whaling
108. John is analyzing a recent malware infection on his company network. He discovers mal-
ware that can spread rapidly via vulnerable network services and does not require any 
interaction from the user. What best describes this malware?
A. Worm
B. Virus
C. Logic bomb
D. Trojan horse
109. While reviewing web logs for her organization’s website, Kathleen discovers the entry 
shown here:
GET http://example.com/viewarticle.php?view=../../../config.txt HTTP/1.1
 What type of attack has she potentially discovered?
A. A directory traversal attack
B. A web application buffer overflow
C. A directory recursion attack
D. A slashdot attack
110. What two files are commonly attacked using offline brute- force attacks?
A. The Windows Registry and the Linux /etc/passwd file
B. The Windows SAM and the Linux /etc/passwd file
C. The Windows SAM and the Linux /etc/shadow file
D. The Windows Registry and the Linux /etc/shadow file
111. You have noticed that when in a crowded area, data from your cell phone is stolen. Later 
investigation shows a Bluetooth connection to your phone, one that you cannot explain. 
What describes this attack?
A. Bluejacking
B. Bluesnarfing
C. An evil twin attack
D. A remote- access Trojan
112. Which of the following situations is not associated with race conditions?
A. Time- of- check
B. Time- of- change
C. Target- of- evaluation
D. Time- of- useChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  53
113. Gabby wants to protect a legacy platform with known vulnerabilities. Which of the fol-
lowing is not a common isolation or segmentation option that could be used to address 
this issue?
A. Disconnect it from the network.
B. Place the device behind a dedicated firewall and restrict inbound and outbound traffic.
C. Rely on the outdated OS to confuse attackers.
D. Move the device to a protected VLAN.
114. After running nmap against a system on a network, Lucca sees that TCP port 23 is open 
and a service is running on it. What issue and resolution should he identify?
A. Low ports should not be open to the Internet and should be disabled.
B. Telnet is an insecure protocol and should be disabled.
C. SSH is an insecure protocol and should be disabled.
D. Ports 1–1024 are well- known ports and must be firewalled.
115. Charles sets the permissions on the /etc directory on a Linux system to 777 using the 
chmod command. If Alex later discovers this, what should he report his finding as?
A. Open or weak permissions
B. Improper file handling
C. A privilege escalation attack
D. None of the above
116. Under what circumstances are concurrent sessions most commonly considered indicators of 
compromise?
A. When they occur on the same system
B. When they occur on two different systems issued to the same user
C. When they occur in two different locations at the same time
D. When they occur in the same location at the same time
11 7. During a penetration test, Angela obtains the uniform of a well- known package delivery 
service and wears it into the target office. She claims to have a delivery for a C- level 
employee she knows is there and insists that the package must be signed for by that person. 
What social engineering technique has she used?
A. Impersonation
B. Whaling
C. A watering hole attack
D. Prepending54 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
118. Frank’s organization operates in a shared responsibility cloud environment. What can 
Frank do to determine if he is suffering from a denial- of- service (DoS) attack against his 
cloud hosting environment?
A. Nothing; cloud services do not provide security tools.
B. Call the cloud service provider to have them stop the DoS attack.
C. Review the cloud service provider’s security tools and enable logging and anti- DoS 
tools if they exist.
D. Call the cloud service provider’s Internet service provider (ISP) and ask them to enable 
DoS prevention.
119. What is the typical goal intent or goal of hacktivists?
A. Increasing their reputation
B. Financial gain
C. Making a political statement
D. Gathering high- value data
120. Ryan needs to verify that no unnecessary ports and services are available on his systems, 
but he cannot run a vulnerability scanner. What is his best option?
A. Passive network traffic capture to detect services
B. A configuration review
C. Active network traffic capture to detect services
D. Log review
121. John is a network administrator for Acme Company. He has discovered that someone 
has registered a domain name that is spelled just one letter different than his company’s 
domain. The website with the misspelled URL is a phishing site. What best describes 
this attack?
A. Session hijacking
B. Cross- site request forgery
C. Typo squatting
D. Clickjacking
122. Which of the following best describes malware that will execute some malicious activity 
when a particular condition is met (i.e., if the condition is met, then executed)?
A. Boot sector virus
B. Logic bomb
C. Buffer overflow
D. Sparse infector virusChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  55
123. Una’s company is assessing threats to their supply chain and wants to consider the most 
likely issues that their server hardware supplier may create. Which of the following is not a 
common concern for organizations assessing hardware providers?
A. Malicious hardware design
B. Injection of malicious firmware
C. Inability to deliver hardware in a timely manner
D. Malicious software added to default OS images
124. Helen wants to prevent her staff from sideloading applications to their Android devices. 
What type of tool is best suited to preventing this type of issue without reducing other func-
tionality for the device?
A. Disable the Google Play store.
B. Disable the manufacturer’s store.
C. Use an EDR tool.
D. Use an MDM solution.
125. Tori believes that the system she is investigating may have a rootkit resident on the system. 
What type of behavior is most likely to indicate a rootkit’s presence?
A. Unusual network traffic
B. Network scanning
C. Displaying a ransom notice
D. Deletion of files
126. Neil wants to deploy a host- intrusion prevention system that will use a third- party threat 
feed to servers in his datacenter. What concern might his system administrators express 
about the HIPS that he should consider before he makes the decision?
A. A HIPS may block traffic, causing an outage or disruption.
B. A HIPS may prevent least privilege configurations.
C. A HIPS may bypass application allow lists.
D. A HIPS may make use of segmentation less effective.
127 . Organize the following threat actors by their typical level of sophistication from most 
sophisticated to least sophisticated:
Hacktivists, Nation- state actors, Organized crime, Shadow IT
A. Hacktivists, Shadow IT, Organized crime, Nation- state actors
B. Nation- state actors, Organized crime, Hacktivists, Shadow IT
C. Organized crime, Hacktivists, Shadow IT, Nation- state actors
D. Shadow IT, Hacktivists, Organized crime, Nation- state actors56 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
128. What is the most common file- based threat vector?
A. Phishing
B. BEC
C. Malware
D. XSS
129. Drew wants to address a recent Windows vulnerability that has a CVE rating of 9.6. What 
should his first step be to address the vulnerability?
A. Isolate the impacted systems.
B. Disable the service.
C. Check to see if a patch is available.
D. Install a host- based firewall.
130. Clay is decommissioning a server and wants to ensure that the system is properly decom-
missioned. Once the drives have been wiped or destroyed, what step typically comes next?
A. Wiping memory
B. Removing the system from inventory
C. Removing the system from management
D. Removing memory
131. Joe recently ran a port scan and found a service running on TCP port 1433. What type of 
attacks would he expect against this service?
A. Web- based attacks
B. Print- server attacks
C. Oracle database server attacks
D. Microsoft SQL Server attacks
132. What type of virtualization attack can be prevented by encrypting storage volumes when 
they are created?
A. VM escape
B. Birthday attacks
C. Pass- the- hash
D. Resource reuse
133. Tyler discovers that software his organization has deployed sends information about the 
workstations back to a central server. After capturing network traffic that is being sent, he 
discovers that it includes the workstation’s IP address, operating system, screen resolution, 
and information about other installed software. What type of malware should Tyler classify 
this as?
A. A Trojan
B. Bloatware
C. A keylogger
D. SpywareChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  57
134. Eden wants to check errors related to a new security tool installed on her Windows work-
station. What log file in Windows contains errors with installed software?
A. The application log
B. The security log
C. The setup log
D. The system log
135. Trent’s company has recently discovered that their DNS information was changed via their 
registrar. Investigation showed that an administrator’s workstation was compromised and 
that the account details for domain administration were contained on the workstation. 
What type of DNS- based attack is this?
A. A DNS- based DoS attack
B. A DNS hijacking attack
C. A DNS amplification attack
D. A DNS- based DDoS attack
136. Giovanni wants to check to see if an impossible travel situation occurred for two logins on 
a Linux server. What log should he check to confirm or disprove his theory?
A. /var/log/messages
B. /var/log/auth.log
C. /var/log/cron.log
D. /var/log/travel
137 . Microsoft’s Intune as well as tools like Jamf are examples of tools that provide what sort of 
mitigation functionality?
A. Decommissioning
B. Configuration enforcement
C. Segmentation
D. HIPS
138. Nora recently wanted to find information about a scientific discovery and queried an AI 
large- language model asking for a summary and references. The AI model provided a sum-
mary of the discovery and a number of citations. After Nora searched for the articles the AI 
cited, she discovered that they did not exist. How would this be classified?
A. As phishing
B. As misinformation
C. As disinformation
D. As brand impersonation58 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
139. Sandeep wants to address the potential for impersonation attacks against her helpdesk. 
What technique is most likely to prevent impersonation attacks from being successful with 
her support staff?
A. Require callers to verify their identity using non- public information.
B. Avoid publishing the help desk’s phone number externally.
C. Require users to complete awareness training.
D. Require callers to provide a callback number and call back before completing tasks.
140. Bob is conducting a penetration test against a client’s environment and he discovers TCP 
port 515 exposed to the Internet. What should he report to his client as a potential attack 
surface?
A. An exposed Internet connected camera
B. An exposed print server
C. An exposed IoT device
D. An exposed UPS management system
141. Which of the following is not a common cryptographic vulnerability?
A. Downgrade attacks
B. Magic key attacks
C. Collision attacks
D. Birthday attacks
142. Louis is investigating a malware incident on one of the computers on his network. He 
has discovered unknown software that seems to be opening a port, allowing someone to 
remotely connect to the computer. This software seems to have been installed at the same 
time as a small shareware application. Which of the following best describes this malware?
A. Trojan
B. Worm
C. Logic bomb
D. Rootkit
143. Which of the following motivations is not commonly associated with advanced persistent 
threat actors?
A. Ethical
B. War
C. Data exfiltration
D. EspionageChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  59
144. Eve wants to protect against DLL injection attacks. Which of the following practices can 
help her prevent DLL injection?
A. Do not allow users to run DLLs.
B. Avoid using DLLs.
C. Use fully qualified paths for DLLs instead of searching paths.
D. Use a DLL vulnerability scanner.
145. Mackenzie wants to protect her organization from firmware vulnerabilities. What practice 
is most effective at preventing malicious firmware from being inadvertently downloaded 
and installed?
A. Only use digitally signed and validated firmware.
B. Scan firmware with an antivirus tool.
C. Only use encrypted firmware.
D. Avoid updating firmware and only use original firmware.
146. Zoie wants to check for instances of concurrent session usage for her web application. 
Where should she look for these indicators?
A. Her firewall logs
B. Her antivirus (AV) logs
C. Her authentication logs
D. Her web application server logs
147 . Valerie knows that a system in her environment has been compromised and wants to take 
immediate action. Which of the following options should she select if she is worried about 
the system impacting other hosts on the network?
A. Deploy antimalware tools to the system and scan it.
B. Immediately isolate the system.
C. Immediately deploy any missing patches to the system.
D. Change default passwords and check for unexpected user accounts.
148. Casey is worried about downgrade attacks against her Apache web servers. What should 
she do to most effectively prevent downgrade attacks?
A. Prevent TLS fallback.
B. Require current web browsers.
C. Run the most current version of Apache.
D. Use an IDS.
149. What type of attack is based on sending more data to a target variable than the data can 
actually hold?
A. Bluesnarfing
B. Buffer overflow
C. Bluejacking
D. Cross- site scripting60 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
150. Which of the following is an attack that seeks to attack a website, based on the website’s 
trust of an authenticated user?
A. XSS
B. XSRF
C. Buffer overflow
D. Directory traversal
151. Mary wants to harden workstations she is responsible for against malware attacks. Which 
of the following is not a common solution to this?
A. Installing EDR
B. Limiting administrative access
C. Installing antivirus
D. Using disk encryption
152. Spyware is an example of what type of malware?
A. Trojan
B. Unwanted programs
C. RAT
D. Ransomware
153. Olivia has provisioned a new virtual machine in a cloud environment and is conducting 
forensic exercises to practice cloud forensic activities. She discovers data on her newly pro-
visioned drive when she begins to analyze the drive. What issue has Olivia encountered?
A. A VM escape issue
B. Improper chain of custody
C. A resource reuse issue
D. Improper legal hold
154. Chuck wants to help his organization protect against business email compromise (BEC) 
attacks. Which of the following is not a common best practice to defend against BEC?
A. Delete all attachments from emails.
B. Use two- factor authentication.
C. Review suspicious email carefully for typos and other indicators.
D. Don’t click URLs in unsolicited emails— visit URLs manually.
155. A penetration tester calls a staff member for her target organization and introduces her -
self as a member of the IT support team. She asks if the staff member has encountered a 
problem with their system, then proceeds to ask for details about the individual, claiming 
she needs to verify that she is talking to the right person. What type of social engineering 
attack is this?
A. Pretexting
B. A watering hole attack
C. Phishing
D. Shoulder surfingChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  61
156. What type of attack targets a specific group of users by infecting one or more websites that 
group is specifically known to visit frequently?
A. A watercooler attack
B. A phishing net attack
C. A watering hole attack
D. A phish pond attack
157 . When a multithreaded application does not properly handle various threads accessing a 
common value, and one thread can change the data while another thread is relying on it, 
what flaw is this?
A. Memory leak
B. Buffer overflow
C. Integer overflow
D. Time- of- check/time- of- use
158. Geoff believes that a workstation on his network may have been the target of an on- path 
attack. What indicator is most likely to indicate this type of attack on a local network 
segment?
A. External DNS resolution shows an improper result.
B. The ARP table shows an alternate address for the gateway.
C. Encrypted traffic has been forced to use a less secure algorithm.
D. A website’s URL has been modified.
159. Kathleen’s IPS flags traffic from two IP addresses as shown here:
Source IP: 10.11.94.111
http://example.com/home/show.php?SESSIONID=a3fghbby
Source IP: 192.168.5.34
http://example.com/home/show.php?SESSIONID=a3fghbby
 What type of attack should she investigate this as?
A. A SQL injection attack
B. A cross- site scripting attack
C. A session replay attack
D. A server- side request forgery attack
160. Andy is an end user in an organization that uses an application allow list to control what 
applications are used on workstations. What does Andy need to do if he wants to install an 
application on his workstation?
A. Download the application, then run the installer using an administrator account.
B. Manually add the application installer to the allow list for his workstation.
C. Request that the application be added to the allow list and have it installed by his 
organization’s administrators.
D. Use a jailbreak to install the application.62 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
161. Frank is traveling and wants to connect to an unsecure wired network in his hotel. Which 
of the following is not a common threat he should consider how to prevent while on an 
unsecured hotel wired network?
A. Network packet capture
B. Network- based attacks
C. Evil twins
D. Worms
162. An attacker is trying to get access to your network. He is sending users on your network 
a link to a new game with a hacked license code program. However, the game files also 
include software that will give the attacker access to any machine that it is installed on. 
What type of attack is this?
A. Rootkit
B. Trojan horse
C. Spyware
D. Boot sector virus
163. Rae’s company recently received an email from a former employee threatening to release 
company data that they copied before they left the organization if the organization does not 
pay them a severance package. What threat actor motivation should she categorize this as?
A. Espionage
B. Revenge
C. Blackmail
D. Service disruption
164. Jack wants to sideload applications to his Android phone. What does he need to do first to 
allow this?
A. Jailbreak the phone.
B. Transfer the files to the phone.
C. Install a package manager.
D. Disable antimalware protection.
165. Jill is conducting a penetration test and uses the following query against a vulnerable web 
application. What data will she see if it succeeds?
    SELECT * FROM users WHERE category = 'customers' OR 1=1- - '
A. A list of all customers
B. A list of all customers whose userID is 1 or larger
C. A list of all customers whose userID is 1
D. A list of all usersChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  63
166. Greg’s checklist for securing new Linux- based devices includes disabling unneeded ports 
and protocols. What primary purpose does this serve?
A. It speeds up port scans.
B. It reduces the number of logged events.
C. It prevents using up default ports.
D. It reduces the device’s attack footprint.
167 . Nathaniel’s organization has recently deployed multifactor authentication (MFA), which 
requires both a password and an MFA code to be provided to authenticate to critical ser -
vices. Despite this, an attacker has recently logged into an administrative console using a 
password and MFA code belonging to a user. Which of the following types of malware is 
most likely to allow an attacker to successfully undertake this type of attack?
A. A virus
B. A worm
C. A logic bomb
D. A keylogger
168. Which of the following is not a common attribute of organized crime threat actors?
A. Internal
B. Well resourced
C. Sophisticated
D. External
169. Darryl is showing Valerie his iPhone and explains that his niece installed a package man-
ager called Cydia on the device that allows him to install applications that are not available 
via the Apple App Store. What does Valerie know about his iPhone?
A. It has been infected with malware.
B. It can be remotely controlled via SSH.
C. It can be remotely controlled via a web interface.
D. It is jailbroken.
170. Isaac is reviewing IPS rules used by his organization and notices rules that block the use of 
' as well as OR 1=1 in HTTP queries. What type of attacks is Isaac’s organization attempt-
ing to stop?
A. Buffer overflow attacks
B. SQL injection attacks
C. Replay attacks
D. Directory traversal attacks64 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
171. Vicki is reviewing common BEC attack methods with her team. Which of the following is 
not a common BEC technique?
A. Using compromised email accounts
B. Using slightly modified spoofed email addresses
C. Sending email from the user’s personal email account
D. Using malware to access email accounts
172. Craig wants to control the applications employees can install on the laptops they are issued. 
If he wants the greatest level of control and is not concerned about flexibility or overhead 
to manage his solution, which of the following will best meet his needs?
A. An access control list
B. Application allow list
C. An application deny list
D. Segmentation
173. Ron wants to prevent users from using SSH between two network segments. Which of the 
following ACLs will prevent users in a segment 10.10.10.0/24 from using SSH to connect 
to the 10.10.20.0/24 network segment?
A. PERMIT IP 10.10.10.0/24 * 10.10.20.0/24 22
B. DENY IP 10.10.10.0/24 * 10.10.20.0/24 22
C. PERMIT IP 10.10.20.0/24 * 10.10.10.0/24 22
D. DENY IP 10.10.20.0/24 * 10.10.10.0/24 22
174. Sam’s organization uses a DNS black hole to prevent access to known malicious sites. The 
organization relies on a reputation service feed that is used to add the known malicious 
domains and IP addresses. DNS lookups that would go to those sites is sent to an internal 
redirect site that lets users know the site is inaccessible. Sam reviews the logs to determine if 
a system is trying to access those blocked sites regularly. What type of indicator of compro-
mise is Sam looking for?
A. Blocked content
B. Resource inaccessibility
C. Missing logs
D. Published or documented indicators
175. Christina is reviewing a Linux system that she is responsible for, and notices that the /usr 
filesystem is 80 percent full. After review, she notices that a single user’s home directory 
has hundreds of files in it that were recently added. What type of indicator of compromise 
should she categorize this as?
A. Resource inaccessibility
B. Blocked content
C. Impossible travel
D. Resource consumptionChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  65
176. What term is used to describe the unwanted but generally harmless programs that are com-
monly installed on consumer computers when they are purchased?
A. Spyware
B. Bloatware
C. Logic bombs
D. Firmware
1 7 7. Michael is performing a forensic analysis of a compromised workstation and discovers 
a copy of cmd.exe in the \system32 folder on a Windows workstation that does not 
match the real cmd.exe file. When he looks at the file, he discovers that it is capable of 
running as an administrator. What type of attack has he discovered?
A. A buffer overflow attack
B. A Trojan attack
C. A privilege escalation attack
D. A replay attack
178. While reviewing logs, Chris sees an Apache web log that includes the following entry:
https://www.example.com/viewer.php?filename=../../../etc/passwd%00.png
What type of attack has Chris most likely uncovered, and what file will it return?
A. A replay attack, password00.png
B. A directory traversal attack, password00.png
C. A replay attack, passwd
D. A directory traversal attack, passwd
179. What common mitigation technique relies on VLANs to separate systems?
A. Encryption
B. Segmentation
C. Impossible travel
D. HIPS
180. Mark’s coworker recently discovered that he can use the Linux su command to run pro-
grams as one of his peers. What type of attack is this?
A. A replay attack
B. A vertical privilege escalation attack
C. A horizontal privilege escalation attack
D. A forgery attack66 Chapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
181. Jason is monitoring his network and notices that hundreds of different IP addresses are 
sending requests to one of his organization’s servers. The requests are small, and when he 
inspects them he sees a simple HTTP GET command for a file. When the server responds, 
it sends back a very large response. What type of attack is likely occurring, and what is it 
attempting to accomplish?
A. A DoS attack and exploiting a vulnerable service
B. A DDoS and a buffer overflow
C. A DDoS and resource exhaustion
D. A DoS attack and an on- path attack
182. Dan was recently troubleshooting a web server and deployed a firewall rule to his organiza-
tion’s datacenter firewall at the beginning of the ruleset. The rule reads:
ALLOW FROM ANY:TCP 80 TO ANY:ANY
What type of vulnerability should the security team at Dan’s workplace label this as?
A. A jailbreak
B. A race condition
C. A misconfiguration
D. An injection attack
183. Brian wants to protect files that are regularly sent via email as part of his organization’s 
business practice. What type of encryption is best suited to this type of usage?
A. Full- disk encryption
B. File- level encryption
C. Volume encryption
D. Transport encryption
184. Olivia has deployed Microsoft’s Intune for her environment. What capability has she gained 
for her devices?
A. Malware detection and response
B. Configuration enforcement
C. Code versioning
D. Web application firewalling
185. Jill is concerned about supply chain attacks against her organization’s service providers. 
Which of the following should be her most significant concern about her software- as- a- 
service (SaaS) service provider as she documents her supply chain risks?
A. Compromise of the SaaS vendor, leading to access to her data
B. Attacks against the SaaS vendor, leading to hours of downtime
C. Lack of availability of hardware from her SaaS vendor for delivery
D. Software vulnerabilities in tools provided by the vendorChapter 2 ■ Domain 2.0: Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations  67
186. Elizabeth is investigating a network breach at her company. She discovers a program that 
was able to execute code within the address space of another process by using the target 
process to load a specific library. What best describes this attack?
A. A logic bomb
B. Session hijacking
C. Buffer overflow
D. DLL injection
1 8 7. Annie wants to prevent a TOC/TOU issue that occurs with her organization’s business 
application. The issue occurs when scripts run as part of the application access a shared 
data file. Sometimes one instance of the script opens the file, checks that inventory is 
sufficient to meet customer needs, then waits for the customer’s interaction. At the same 
time, another instance of the script checks, sees that there is sufficient inventory, and also 
provides that information to another customer. If both customers place orders, Annie’s 
organization is unable to meet demand. If Annie wants to continue to grow her business’s 
use of the application, which of the following options is the best way to prevent this issue?
A. Delete the resource after each use.
B. Only run one instance of the process.
C. Make multiple copies of the resource so each process has its own.
D. Lock the resource until the process is done with it.