1. Felicia wants to deploy an encryption solution that will protect files in motion as they are  copied between file shares as well as at rest, and also needs it to support granular, per- user  security. What type of solution should she select?
A. Partition encryption
B. File encryption
C. Full- disk encryption
D. Record- level encryption 

2. Valerie wants to use a certificate to handle multiple subdomains for her website, including  the sales.example.com and support.example.com subdomains. What type of certifi- cate should she use?
A. A self- signed certificate
B. A root of trust certificate
C. A CRL certificate
D. A wildcard certificate 

3. What information is analyzed during a gap analysis?
A. Control objectives and controls intended to meet the objectives
B. Physically separate networks and their potential connection points
C. Compensating controls and the controls they are replacing
D. Security procedures and the policies they are designed to support 

4. Susan’s team has recommended an application restart for a production, customer- facing  application as part of an urgent patch due to a security update. What technical implication is  the most common concern when conducting an application restart?
A. Application configuration changes caused by the restart
B. Whether the patch will properly apply
C. Lack of security controls during the restart
D. The downtime during the restart 

5. Using a tool like git is most frequently associated with what critical change management  process?
A. Having a backout plan
B. Stakeholder analysis
C. Version control
D. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) 

6. Jacob is concerned that the password used for one of his organization’s services is weak, and  he wants to make it harder to crack by making it harder to test possible keys during a brute-  force attack. What is this technique called?
A. Master keying
B. Key stretching
C. Key rotation
D. Passphrase armoring 

7. Log monitoring is an example of what control category?
A. Technical
B. Managerial
C. Operational
D. Physical 

8. Rick wants to make offline brute- force attacks against his password file very difficult for  attackers. Which of the following is not a common technique to make passwords harder  to crack?
A. Use of a salt
B. Use of a pepper
C. Use of a purpose- built password hashing algorithm
D. Encrypting password plain text using symmetric encryption 

9. Diffie–Hellman and RSA are both examples of what important encryption- related solution?
A. Rekeying
B. Certificate revocation protocols
C. Key exchange algorithms
D. Key generation algorithms 

10. Sally wants to ensure that her change management process includes a procedure for   what to do if the change fails. What should she create to handle this possibility?
A. An impact analysis
B. A backout plan
C. A regression test
D. A maintenance window 

11. Theresa is concerned that her scheduled maintenance window may extend beyond  the allocated time due to an unexpected issue. What element from the CIA triad is she  concerned about?
A. Criticality
B. Accessibility
C. Integrity
D. Availability 

12. Alaina is concerned about vehicles that might impact her organization’s backup generator.  What should she install to prevent both inadvertent and purposeful vehicle impacts on a gen- erator installed outside her building near a parking lot?
A. A speed bump
B. An access control vestibule
C. Bollards
D. A chain- link fence 

13. Ben has deployed a data loss prevention (DLP) tool that inspects data and flags specific data  types for review before emails containing it are sent outside the organization. What control  type best describes this type of solution?
A. Managerial
B. Detective
C. Corrective
D. Preventive 

14. What type of control is a policy or procedure?
A. Directive
B. Corrective
C. Detective
D. Preventive 

15. Murali has deployed a file integrity monitoring tool and has configured alerts to notify him if  files are modified. What control type best describes this solution?
A. Preventive
B. Deterrent
C. Directive
D. Detective 

16. Charles wants to reduce the threat scope of compromised credentials. What type of the fol- lowing security controls is best suited to meeting this need?
A. Single sign- on
B. Federation
C. Zero trust
D. Multifactor authentication (MFA)

17. Carol wants to obfuscate data that is contained in her database. She wants to be able to  refer to the data elements without having the actual data exposed. What type of obfuscation  option should she select?
A. Tokenization
B. Encryption
C. Data masking
D. Data randomization 

18. What key is used to decrypt information sent by another individual between two people  using public key encryption?
A. The recipient’s private key
B. The recipient’s public key
C. The sender’s private key
D. The sender’s public key 

19. Selah’s organization has recently experienced a breach and the private keys for her organiza- tion’s certificates were exposed. What should she immediately do?
A. Reissue the certificates with changed hostnames and other details.
B. Replace the certificates with self- signed certificates until they can be replaced by  the vendor.
C. Revoke the certificates and place them on a certificate revocation list.
D. Replace the certificates with wildcard certificates. 

20. Which of the following is not a major concern related to downtime caused by patching and  system updates?
A. Attackers compromising the system or service while it is offline
B. Security systems or functions being offline during restart or shutdown processes
C. Unexpected extended downtime
D. Dependencies between systems or services related to downtime 

21. Joanna wants to ensure that the most current version of each component in her application is  deployed. What change management process will help the most with this requirement?
A. Dependency mapping
B. Version control
C. Impact analysis
D. Allow and deny lists 

22. Greg wants to implement a version control system to ensure that changes are made in ways  that will not cause problems for his organization’s critical software. Which of the following is  not a common feature of version control systems designed for software source code?
A. Atomic operations
B. File locking
C. Regression testing
D. Tagging and labeling 

23. Christina wants to implement a physical security control that has the greatest flexibility in  how it is applied because she knows that exceptions to security practices may be required at  times. Which of the following solutions has the greatest flexibility?
A. Video surveillance
B. Security guards
C. Access badges
D. Access control vestibules 

24. Lisa wants to ensure that theft of a device will not lead to exposure of the data contained on  the device if the device is locked or turned off. What type of encryption should she select to  best ensure this?
A. Volume- level encryption
B. Full- disk encryption
C. File- level encryption
D. Partition- level encryption 

25. Mahmoud has been asked to implement an allow list for websites that users at his company  can visit. What concern should he bring up to management due to this request?
A. Allow lists cannot be used for websites.
B. Allow lists are overly permissive and are likely to allow unwanted sites to be visited.
C. Using an allow list for websites will take a lot of time to maintain.
D. Using an allow list for websites is easily bypassed. 

26. Which of the following change management processes does not commonly directly involve  stakeholders outside of the IT organization?
A. Impact analysis
B. Building the backout plan
C. The change approval process
D. Determining the maintenance window

27. What hardware component is used to generate, store, and manage cryptographic keys?
A. A CPU
B. A NSA
C. A TPM
D. A CCA 

28. Chris wants to check to see if a certificate has been revoked. What protocol can he use to   validate the current status of a certificate?
A. TLS
B. OCRS
C. SSL
D. OCSP 

29. Brian’s organization uses a process where a secure module boots systems, then monitors them  as each boot stage proceeds. It validates each signed boot stage and reports on whether the  boot process was correct or not when complete. What is the secure module used to verify  these stages called?
A. A secure initiation manager
B. A root of trust
C. A boot hash
D. A cryptographic boot manager 

30. A vulnerability scan shows that an embedded device that Alice is responsible for has a vul- nerability. She knows the vendor is no longer in business and that there is no updated firm- ware or software update for the device. To resolve the issue, Alice places a firewall between  the device and the rest of the network and creates rules that prevent the vulnerable service  from being available to other devices. What type of control has Alice deployed?
A. A directive control
B. A compensating control
C. A detective control
D. A procedural control 

31. Jason knows that his Apple system uses a separate portion of its SoC (system on chip) to  store keys and biometric information. What is this specialized component called?
A. A TPM
B. A HSM
C. A secure enclave
D. A screened subnet 

32. What change management term is used to describe the processes that an organization uses  for each change that is made to ensure that a consistent process is used?
A. Standard operating procedures
B. A change plan
C. Fixed operating procedures
D. A backout plan 

33. Jack knows that there are three common types of database encryption. Which of the follow- ing is not a common type of database encryption?
A. Sensitivity- based encryption
B. Transparent data encryption
C. Field- level encryption
D. Column- level encryption 

34. Ujamaa wants to conduct a gap analysis as part of his security efforts. Which of the follow- ing best describes what he will analyze?
A. Which services are not configured properly
B. Whether current patches are installed on all systems
C. The security program as implemented versus best practices
D. Legal requirements versus the security program 

35. Brandon wants to deploy a detective control that will help him with physical security threats.  Which of the following fits his needs?
A. Fencing
B. Lighting
C. Video surveillance
D. Bollards 

36. Jack has deployed a system that appears to attackers to be a vulnerable system. The system is  specifically designed to capture information and data from attacks to allow for later analysis.  What type of tool has Jack deployed?
A. A tarpit
B. A honeypot
C. A beehive
D. An intrusion detection system 3 

7. Renee wants to ensure that her logs support nonrepudiation. What should she do to  ensure this?
A. Encrypt, then hash the logs.
B. Hash the logs and then digitally sign them.
C. Digitally sign the log file, then encrypt it.
D. Hash, then encrypt the logs. 

38. Isaac wants to deploy sensors to detect intruders in a facility, but he is concerned about the  sensors being overly sensitive. What type of sensor is best suited to detecting intruders in an  open office environment without significant expense or issues with sensitivity?
A. Infrared
B. Pressure
C. Microwave
D. Ultrasonic 

39. Wayne wants to allow systems to claim identities as part of his AAA process. Which of the  following is most commonly used to identify both individuals and systems?
A. Tokens
B. Smartcards
C. Certificates
D. Usernames 

40. What are considerations like database and network connectivity, authentication system  access, and network time availability considered in the context of change management  processes?
A. Allowed services
B. Standard operating procedures
C. Denied services
D. Dependencies 

41. What role does the policy engine play in a zero- trust environment?
A. It creates new administrative policies based on user behavior.
B. It grants access based on policies created by administrators and based on security sys- tems data.
C. It enforces policies by monitoring connections between clients and servers.
D. It suggests new administrative policies based on usage patterns for adoption by the  organization. 

42. Which of the following is not a common post- change activity found in change management  practices?
A. Updating diagrams
B. Updating procedures
C. Updating policies
D. Updating contracts 

43. Which of the following activities should Alaina not restrict as part of her preparation for a  change window?
A. Patching
B. Scaling clustered systems up or down
C. Changing hostnames
D. Modifying database configurations 

44. What two key features define blockchain ledgers?
A. They are immutable and nontransferable.
B. They are shared and can be modified by a vote among all participants.
C. They are unique to each participant and are atomic.
D. They are shared and immutable. 

45. Damian issues the following command on his Linux server: openssl req - new - newkey rsa:2048 - nodes - keyout exampleserver.   key - out exampleserver.csr  What has he done?
A. Created a certificate signing request
B. Created a certificate revocation request
C. Signed a certificate signing request
D. Updated the OCSP record for a certificate 

46. Nick’s organization sets aside Saturday nights from 2 a.m. to 4 a.m. for scheduled mainte- nance. What is this type of reserved time typically called?
A. Allocated downtime
B. A maintenance window
C. An unscheduled outage
D. An allowed outage 4 

7. Megan wants to assess the impact of a change as part of her change management process.  Which of the following is most likely to help her assess impact?
A. A backout plan
B. An estimate of the downtime expected
C. A list of stakeholders
D. A list of dependencies for impacted systems 

48. Jared wants to estimate the downtime that will result as part of a planned change. Which of  the following methods will most effectively help him estimate downtime?
A. Average the downtime from other recent changes.
B. Contact the vendor for time estimates for the change.
C. Perform the change in a test environment.
D. Use a fixed maintenance window. 

49. An encryption method in which all participants have the same key is known as which of the  following types of encryption?
A. Shared hashing
B. Asymmetric encryption
C. Symmetric encryption
D. Universal encryption 

50. What important encryption challenge does asymmetric encryption help with by using  public keys?
A. Evil twins
B. Collision resistance
C. Key length
D. Key exchange 

51. Rick’s cloud provider offers a dedicated hardware security module. Which of the following  capabilities is it unlikely to offer?
A. Validating secure boot processes
B. Key generation
C. Encrypting and decrypting data
D. Creating digital signatures 

52. Michelle believes that an image she has discovered in an attacker’s directory of files contains  additional information that has been hidden in it. What is this type of obfuscation called?
A. Steganography
B. Image hashing
C. PNG warping
D. Image blocking 

53. Which of the following is not a common transport encryption protocol?
A. TLS
B. IPSec
C. SAML
D. SSH 

54. What technology is record- level encryption most commonly associated with?
A. Stored audio files
B. Databases
C. Physical disks
D. Removable storage 

55. Yasmine submits the Windows BitLocker key to a central repository after she encryptions the  machine. The central repository allows files to be uploaded, but not read, and is protected  with access requiring special permissions. What type of solution is Yasmine’s company using?
A. A hardware security module
B. Perfect forward secrecy
C. Key escrow
D. Private keys 

56. Valerie wants to authenticate her systems using her AAA system. Which of the following  options is best suited to system authentication?
A. Asymmetric authentication
B. Certificate- based authentication
C. Symmetric authentication
D. PIN- based authentication

57. Valentine wants to detect if an intruder has accessed a secured file server. Which of the  following techniques will work best with a data loss prevention tool to identify data  exfiltration?
A. A honeypot
B. A honeynet
C. A honeyfile
D. A honeytoken 

58. Jason has recommended that additional lighting be put in place on the exterior of his  building as part of a security upgrade. What type of control is lighting?
A. Operational
B. Deterrent
C. Corrective
D. Technical 

59. Which of the following controls is typically the most expensive to implement?
A. Bollards
B. Access control vestibules
C. Security guards
D. Access badges 

60. Frankie wants to validate the integrity of a file by comparing it against an original copy.  Which of the following solutions both fulfills this requirement and avoids known secu- rity issues?
A. Hash the original file and the current file using MD5 and compare the hashes.
B. Hash the original file and the current file using SHA- 1 and compare the hashes.
C. Hash the original file and the current file using SHA- 256 and compare the hashes.
D. Hash the original file and the current file using AES and compare the hashes. 

61. Joanna’s organization has a policy that requires a user’s password to be immediately reset to  lock accounts if the account is determined to have been successfully phished. What type of  control is this?
A. A detective control
B. A directive control
C. A compensating control
D. A preventive control 

62. Jackie wants to implement an AAA system for her network. What AAA protocol is com- monly used for network devices?
A. OpenID
B. SAML
C. RADIUS
D. TANGENT 

63. Scott wants to automate policy creation in his zero- trust environment’s policy engine. Which  of the following is not a typical component for automated data and event- driven policy  management?
A. A SIEM
B. Threat feeds
C. Infrared sensor data
D. EDR tools 

64. Valerie’s organization has deployed a zero- trust solution, and Valerie receives an authentica- tion prompt when she is attempting to access a file server. What component of the zero- trust  architecture is she interacting with?
A. A policy enforcement point
B. A policy administrator
C. The policy engine
D. The trust manager 

65. Matt is assessing his organization’s zero- trust model against the NIST Zero Trust Maturity  Model. Which of the following is not a common element of zero- trust systems that would be  assessed as part of the model?
A. Identity
B. Business model
C. Networks
D. Devices 

66. Quentin wants to deploy a single sign- on system to allow his users to log in to cloud services.  Which of the following technologies is he most likely to deploy?
A. OpenID
B. Kerberos
C. LDAP
D. TACACS+

67. Marty wants to deploy a corrective control to deal with a recently compromised system.  Which of the following would be considered a corrective control?
A. Patching the vulnerability that allowed the compromise to occur
B. Deploying full- disk encryption
C. Deploying an endpoint detection and response (EDR) tool
D. Enabling logging and sending logs to a SIEM 

68. What important encryption feature is not supported by symmetric encryption?
A. Confidentiality
B. Integrity
C. Nonrepudiation
D. Authentication 

69. Theresa wants to use a cloud- hosted security solution that will allow her to safely store and  manage secrets. What type of solution should she select?
A. A TPM
B. A CA
C. A KMS
D. A CSR 

70. Joanna is reviewing her account information on an e- commerce website and sees her credit  card number displayed as XXXX- XXXX- XXXX- 1234. What type of data obfuscation  is in use?
A. Hashing
B. Data masking
C. Field encryption
D. Tokenization 

71. Amanda’s organization wants to use a decentralized blockchain to store data. Which of the  following is true about a decentralized blockchain?
A. No individual or group controls the blockchain.
B. Only cryptocurrency- related data can be stored in a blockchain.
C. Blockchain data can be changed after being stored by the original submitter.
D. Blockchain ledgers are stored on central servers chosen by regular elections among  blockchain participants. 

72. What role does a subordinate CA have in a CA hierarchy?
A. Subordinate CAs issue certificates based on subdomains.
B. Subordinate CAs provide control over certificate issuance while avoiding the cost of  being a root CA.
C. Subordinate CAs validate root CA activities to ensure auditability.
D. Subordinate CAs review certificate signing requests before forwarding them to the  root CA. 

73. Which of the following sensor types is commonly used to detect footsteps?
A. Infrared
B. Pressure
C. Microwave
D. Ultrasonic 

74. Which of the following is not a managerial control?
A. Risk assessments
B. Including security in change management processes
C. Security planning exercises
D. Implementing firewalls 

75. What purpose do third- party certificates serve for customers of cloud services?
A. They reduce costs by using bring- your- own certificates.
B. They allow certificates for domains other than the service provider’s domain.
C. They provide control over cryptographic security for the customer.
D. They allow more flexibility in TLS version selection. 

76. Which of the following is not a common control focused on availability?
A. Uninterruptible power systems
B. Redundant Internet connectivity
C. Disk encryption
D. Load balancers

77. What term describes a collection of honeypots on a network intended to capture information  about cybersecurity threats?
A. A honeyfarm
B. A honeynet
C. A honeycluster
D. A darknet 

78. Skip wants to implement a deterrent control to prevent physical security issues for his organi- zation. Which of the following controls should he select?
A. A fence
B. A generator
C. Access badges
D. A camera system 

79. What holds the position of the root of trust in a certificate chain?
A. A hardened hardware device
B. A TPM
C. A root certificate
D. A wildcard certificate 

80. Jill needs to explain the concept of open public ledgers to her organization as management  wants to adopt a blockchain- based system. What should she tell them about access to  the ledger?
A. Members must be added by a vote of all current members.
B. Anyone can join at any time.
C. Members must be added by a vote of more than 51 percent of current members.
D. Ledgers are public but membership is private and controlled by the creator of the ledger. 

81. Olivia wants to use a self- signed certificate in her test environment for her organization’s  services to save money on commercial certificates. What warning should her team give her  about the use of self- signed certificates in a test environment?
A. Certificate root of trust validation attempts will fail if implemented.
B. Self- signed certificates cannot be used for external users to support SSL.
C. Self- signed certificates cannot be used for internal users to support SSL.
D. Browsers will not allow self- signed certificates to be used when browsing sites. 

82. Amanda is concerned about issues with dependencies that may be found during her pending  change. What practice should she implement to help ensure unexpected dependency issues  are not encountered?
A. Update organizational policies and procedures before the change.
B. Update functional diagrams before the change.
C. Validate the change in a test environment.
D. Document legacy applications that may create dependencies. 

83. Lucca has implemented an authentication scheme that relies on ticket- granting tickets as part  of the authentication process. What common authentication service has he implemented?
A. TACACS+
B. Kerberos
C. MS- CHAP
D. EAP 

84. Jocelyn wants to select a modern encryption algorithm for use in her organization. Which of  the following is a currently recommended encryption algorithm?
A. AES- 256
B. SHA1
C. DES
D. Blowfish 

85. Elizabeth wants to classify the following controls by their category. What category best  describes lighting, fences, bollards, and access control vestibules?
A. Technical
B. Managerial
C. Operational
D. Physical 

86. Jack wants to ensure the integrity of a file that he is sending to a third party via email.  How can he provide the integrity of a file to an organization that he has not done business  with before?
A. Encrypt the file and send it to them.
B. Digitally sign the file.
C. Send a hash of the file in a separate email.
D. Email the file size and original name in a separate email.

87. Annie notices that her browser shows that the certificate for the site she is visiting is not  valid. After performing some checks, she sees that the certificate is on the CA’s certificate   revocation list. Which of the following is not a reason for a certificate to be on a CRL?
A. The CA is compromised.
B. The certificate’s private key was compromised.
C. The certificate was signed with a stolen key.
D. The certificate expired. 

88. Mohinder wants to use modern, secure hashing algorithms to validate files against known  good originals. Which of the following hashing algorithms should he select?
A. MD5
B. SHA- 1
C. AES- 256
D. SHA- 256 

89. Derrick wants to validate an encrypted and digitally signed message sent using asymmetric  encryption. What does he need from the sender to validate the message?
A. The sender’s private key
B. Derrick’s private key
C. The sender’s public key
D. Derrick’s public key 

90. The major patch release that Susan’s team installed has failed, resulting in a nonworking ser - vice. What should her team do according to change management best practices?
A. Declare an outage.
B. Follow the documented backout plan.
C. Restore from backups to the previous version.
D. Uninstall the patch and validate service function. 

91. The web server that Angela’s organization manages was recently compromised and the SSL  certificate’s private key was accessed by attackers. Angela’s team has completed remediation  and has created a new CSR, including a new private key that they have secured. What type of  control type best describes the creation of a new key and certificate in this circumstance?
A. Corrective
B. Compensating
C. Deterrent
D. Detective 

92. Mikayla’s zero- trust system has received a request for access with an identity, and the basic  criteria for access have been met. What should the system do next before providing access to  the resource requested?
A. Check the remote system’s security status.
B. Require reauthentication using MFA.
C. Check the user’s rights to ensure they can access the resource.
D. Determine its level of confidence in the request. 

93. Charles sets up an RDP server on an isolated network segment and places a file on it called  passwords.xlsx. He then configures his IPS and DLP systems to monitor for that file   exiting the network segment. What type of tool has Charles deployed?
A. A honeyfile
B. A SQL trap
C. A red flag
D. A trigger file 

94. Lucca is using precomputed rainbow tables to attempt to crack hashed passwords from a  data breach. He knows that two users have the same password, but the hashes do not match.  What password hash security technique has Lucca most likely encountered?
A. Password encryption
B. Salting
C. Hash rotation
D. Password mismatching 

95. What operating system is commonly associated with secure enclaves?
A. Windows
B. iOS
C. Linux
D. Android 

96. Isaac is concerned that the passwords that his users are creating are too short and can be  easily brute- forced if their hashes were compromised. Rather than make his users remember  longer passwords, he would like to implement a technical solution to help make the hashes  more resistant to cracking. What solution can he use to help with this?
A. Implement pass- the- hash algorithms.
B. Use a collision- resistant hashing algorithm.
C. Implement key stretching techniques.
D. Encrypt passwords rather than hashing them.

97. Christina wants to implement access badges printed with picture IDs for her organization,  but she wants to use a wireless reader. What access badge technology is commonly imple- mented in scenarios like this?
A. Wi- Fi- enabled access badges
B. RFID access badges
C. Bluetooth- enabled access badges
D. NFC access badges 

98. Kendra’s vulnerability management team has discovered that Internet of Things (IoT)  devices deployed a few years ago to monitor temperatures for critical refrigerated equip- ment are vulnerable to a new attack. After reviewing the issue, her team has discovered that  the devices are no longer supported and that the manufacturer has gone out of business.  They suggest moving the devices to an isolated network to help protect them. What type of  control has Kendra’s team suggested?
A. A corrective control
B. A compensating control
C. A confidentiality control
D. A coordinated control 

99. Which of the following is not a common factor in adaptive authentication for zero trust?
A. Where the user is logging in from
B. Whether the user has logged in recently from another device
C. What device the user is logging in from
D. If the device is configured correctly 

100. Juan’s organization is designing their zero- trust model. Which of the following statements is  true for network security zones?
A. All communication is secured, regardless of the network security zone it occurs in.
B. Communication receives additional security in low- trust zones.
C. Communication receives less security in high- trust zones.
D. All zero- trust networks are considered secured zones. 

101. What advantage do microwave sensors have over infrared sensors?
A. They can detect heat signatures.
B. They are cheaper than infrared sensors.
C. They can penetrate some types of walls.
D. They do not interfere with sensitive equipment. 

102. Isaac is conducting a physical penetration test and wants to bypass an access control  vestibule. What must he accomplish?
A. He needs to persuade an individual to allow him to follow them through a single door.
B. He needs to acquire an individual’s access card.
C. He needs to persuade an individual to allow him to follow them through two doors  in a row.
D. He needs to acquire the individual’s access PIN. 

103. Rachel wants to select an obfuscation method that will allow her customer service represen- tatives to validate customer identities without providing full access to customer data. What  should she select?
A. Tokenization
B. Data masking
C. Steganography
D. Hashing 

104. Valerie’s manager has informed her that version control must be implemented for her  development team’s work. Which of the following is not a common, security- related reason  for version control?
A. To help with patching
B. To track each contributor’s workload
C. To ensure the proper version is deployed
D. To help with change management 

105. Jackie’s change management process involves reporting functional validation test results to  stakeholders. Which of the following is not a common stakeholder or stakeholder group for  an application upgrade?
A. Application administrators
B. Service owners
C. System administrators
D. Auditors 

106. How many keypairs are required for four individuals to communicate securely using   asymmetric encryption?
A. 1
B. 4
C. 8
D. 12

107. Michelle wants to store secrets for her organization in a cloud service. She wants to ensure  the greatest level of security for her organization, and she is willing to spend more money  to provide that security. What solution should she look for?
A. A shared cloud TPM
B. A shared cloud HSM
C. A dedicated hardware cloud TPM
D. A dedicated hardware cloud HSM 

108. Murali wants to digitally sign a file. What key does he need to sign it?
A. The recipient’s private key
B. His private key
C. The recipient’s public key
D. His public key 

109. What information is necessary for a certificate to be identified properly in an OCSP  request?
A. The domain name
B. The original requestor’s name
C. The certificate’s serial number
D. The identifier for the open public ledger entry 

110. Rick checks the certificate for the site he is viewing and sees that it reads *.example.com.  What type of certificate is this, and why is it in use?
A. It is a self- signed certificate, and it is used for testing purposes.
B. It is a wildcard certificate and is used for testing purposes.
C. It is a wildcard certificate and is used for multiple subdomains.
D. It is a self- signed certificate and is used for multiple subdomains. 

111. John wants to write a procedure that addresses what to do if an employee inadvertently dis- closes their password due to a phishing attempt. What type of control is John considering?
A. A directive control
B. A proactive control
C. A deterrent control
D. A preventive control 

112. Adam has been asked to implement an allow list for websites that his servers can visit.  What concern should he raise about the implementation of allow lists?
A. Allow lists can be difficult to manage and cause failures if sites that are needed are  not added.
B. Allow lists do not prevent sites from being visited if they are not on the allow list.
C. Allow lists cannot be configured to allow entire domains to be visited, creating  significant overhead.
D. Allow lists are prone to error, allowing unwanted sites to be added. 

113. Jim wants to implement an authentication framework for his wireless network. Which of  the following is most commonly used for wireless network authentication?
A. EAP
B. MS- CHAP
C. Kerberos
D. LDAP 

114. Gary is preparing change management documentation for an application restart after  patching. What step should immediately follow the application restart?
A. Validation testing
B. Documenting the change occurred
C. Updating version control
D. Vulnerability scanning 

115. Anna has been told that her organization has deployed microwave sensors in the organiza- tion’s warehouses. What are microwave sensors most frequently used to detect?
A. Motion
B. Glass break
C. Heat signatures
D. Pressure 

116. When is data on a drive that uses full- disk encryption at the greatest risk?
A. During the system boot process
B. When the system is off
C. When the system is logged in and in use
D. When the system is being shut down

117. Alex has configured full- disk encryption for laptops that his organization issues to  employees. What cybersecurity objective does this primarily support?
A. Confidentiality
B. Availability
C. Authenticity
D. Integrity 

118. What process reviews control objectives for an organization, system, or service to determine  if controls do not meet the control objectives?
A. A penetration test
B. A gap analysis
C. A Boolean analysis
D. A risk analysis 

119. Frank configures an access control list to ensure that only specific IP addresses are able to  connect to a service. What type of control has he deployed?
A. Managerial
B. Physical
C. Technical
D. Operational 

120. Annie has recently implemented a video surveillance system for her organization. What is  the largest driver for new ongoing costs for an unmonitored video surveillance system?
A. Camera maintenance
B. The ongoing cost of storage
C. Security guards
D. Licensing 

121. Henry’s organization has recently experienced a ransomware attack and is restoring  backups from a secure backup system. What type of security control is Henry using?
A. A preventive control
B. A directive control
C. A compensating control
D. A corrective control 

122. What data obfuscation technique relies on a lookup table that allows you to match the data  you want to secure to a randomly generated value to ensure that the actual value is not  easily accessible?
A. Hashing
B. Tokenization
C. Randomization
D. Masking 

123. What challenge drives the need for key exchange mechanisms?
A. The number of keys required for symmetric encryption
B. The need to determine if a key is public
C. The need to exchange keys in a way that prevents others from obtaining a copy
D. The need to securely return keys to their owner after they are traded 

124. Jackie is performing an impact analysis prior to a large- scale change her team is preparing  to implement. Which of the following groups is not typically part of the impact analysis?
A. Stakeholders
B. System administrators
C. Service owners
D. Legal counsel 

125. Ilya wants to create a certificate signing request. Which of the following is not a typical part  of a CSR?
A. The common name of the server
B. The organization’s legal name
C. A contact email address
D. The organization’s phone number 

126. Before Tony stores a password hash, he appends a string of characters that is unique to  each password generated using an algorithm he created. What technique is Tony using to  help protect his password hashes?
A. Tokenization
B. Steganography
C. Salting
D. Key stretching

127 . Which of the following is not a step taken when a transaction is entered in a blockchain?
A. The value of the block is determined.
B. The transaction is sent to a peer- to- peer network of computers.
C. The transaction is validated using equations.
D. A transaction history is maintained as part of the blockchain. 

128. Kent wants to encrypt network traffic in transit. What cryptographic protocol is most fre- quently used to add encryption to existing protocols?
A. S/MIME
B. TLS
C. MPLS
D. SSH 

129. Which of the following is not a common concern in change management processes related  to legacy applications?
A. Lack of vendor support
B. Lack of patches and updates
C. Ongoing licensing costs
D. Availability of third- party or consultant expertise 

130. Elaine wants to document the technical concerns that dependencies create as part of her  change management process. Which of the following concerns is the most common when  dependencies are encountered as part of change management?
A. Documenting the dependencies to ensure they are addressed
B. Removing the dependencies as part of the change
C. Patching the dependencies in addition to the main application
D. Updating diagrams related to the dependencies 

131. Gary has implemented record- level encryption for his database. How many keys will he use  in a typical implementation of record- level encryption?
A. One key per record
B. One key per column
C. One key per table
D. One key per database 

132. Justin’s laptop is part of his organization’s zero- trust architecture. What term is used to  refer to a device like a laptop, desktop, or mobile device in a zero- trust design?
A. A subject
B. A policy engine
C. A service provider
D. A policy application point 

133. Susan’s organization has deployed a zero- trust architecture. Which of the following zero-  trust control plane components uses rules to determine who can access a service based on  the security status of their system, threat data, and similar information?
A. Adaptive authorization
B. Threat scope reduction
C. Policy- driven access control
D. Secured zones 

134. Scott wants to implement OCSP as part of an application he is creating. What will he  implement?
A. A corrective control security process
B. Certificate status checking
C. Transport encryption
D. Full- disk encryption 

135. Which of the following is not a common reason to implement key escrow?
A. Regulatory compliance
B. Providing access to encrypted data for administrative reasons
C. Providing access to encrypted data in emergencies
D. Preventing the need for key rotation after a user leaves 

136. Yariv discovers that he has exposed his private key to other users in his organization by  sending it via email instead of his public key. What should he do?
A. Ask the other users to delete any copies of his private key that they may have.
B. Immediately add his key to a CRL and reissue the key.
C. Create a new keypair and notify others that he has replaced his keypair.
D. Continue to operate as normal as long as the private key was not used maliciously.

137 . What happens if a mistake is made and an incorrect transaction is entered into the open  public ledger in a blockchain?
A. The transaction is reversed once it is discovered, and the original transaction is  removed from the record.
B. A new transaction must be processed, and both transactions remain in the record.
C. The original transaction is updated and becomes the new record.
D. An error block must be mined and labeled with the transaction number and error  details. 

138. Which of the following activities will not typically result in a need to update policies and  procedures?
A. Deploying a new application
B. Installing patches for an existing application
C. Conducting a lessons learned exercise after an incident
D. Changes in regulations 

139. Hrant’s organization wants to ensure that staff members use both something they know  and something they have as part of their physical access control scheme. Which of the fol- lowing solutions meets that requirement?
A. Security guards and access badges
B. Keys and access control vestibules
C. Access badges and PINs
D. Security guards and access control vestibules 

140. Julia wants to detect if an intruder enters a space using a sensor system. Which of the fol- lowing is not typically used to detect intruders?
A. Infrared sensors
B. Pressure sensors
C. Microwave sensors
D. Ultrasonic sensors 

141. Which of the following is not true for a secure cryptographic hash system?
A. Hashes are a one- way function.
B. Hashes generate a fixed length output.
C. Hashes may generate the same output for multiple inputs.
D. Hashes are commonly used to verify the integrity of files. 

142. Casey wants to prevent tailgating attacks on her datacenter. What type of physical security  solution should she put in place?
A. Video surveillance
B. Bollards
C. An access control vestibule
D. Access badges 

143. As Casey continues to work to secure her datacenter, she decides to deploy access badges.  What technique will provide the greatest assurance that a stolen or cloned access badge will  not allow an attacker access?
A. Use barcode- based badges.
B. Require a PIN along with the badge.
C. Use RFID- based badges.
D. Include a picture of the user on the badge. 

144. What term describes the function of digital signatures related to proving that the signature  was provided by the owner of a given private key?
A. Ledger- based validation
B. Nonrepudiation
C. Key stretching
D. Authentication 

145. John wants to send his public key to another user. What steps are necessary to do so?
A. The key must be sent using Diffie–Hellman.
B. The key can simply be sent via email or other means.
C. The key must be sent using RSA.
D. The key must be signed, then sent via email or other means. 

146. Tracy wants to use the most secure salting solution she can. Which of the following options  will provide the most secure salt?
A. Set a salt value and store it in a database.
B. Set a salt value and store it in the program code.
C. Generate a unique salt for each hashed entry.
D. Generate a unique salt value every time a value is used.

147. Bob conducts a periodic risk assessment of his organization. What category of security   control is this?
A. Technical
B. Managerial
C. Operational
D. Physical 

148. After a breach, Jackie removes malicious software from a server that she is responsible for.  What control type should she classify this as?
A. Preventive
B. Corrective
C. Compensating
D. Deterrent 

149. What can a root SSL (TLS) certificate do?
A. Remove a certificate from a CRL
B. Generate a signing key and use it to sign a new certificate
C. Authorize new CA users
D. Allow key stretching 

150. Christina wants to authenticate individuals as part of her AAA implementation. What will  she need to do to authenticate users?
A. Match users to roles and ensure that rights are assigned.
B. Conduct biometric enrollments for every user.
C. Use identity proofing for each user she creates.
D. Ensure that users provide an identity and one or more authentication factors. 
