1. The company that Scott works for has experienced a data breach, and the personal 
information of thousands of customers has been exposed. Which of the following impact cat-
egories is not a concern as described in this scenario?
A. Reputation
B. Financial
C. Availability loss
D. Data loss
2. Sameer wants to assess whether the key risk indicators (KRIs) his team have suggested are 
appropriate for his organization. Which of the following is not a common characteristic of a 
useful KRI?
A. Actionable
B. Measurable
C. Relevant
D. Inexpensive
3. Jill’s organization wants to ensure that services and systems are back online and functioning 
normally within 4 hours of an event or incident. What term best describes this goal?
A. An RTO
B. An MTTR
C. An RPO
D. An MTBF
4. Eric’s organization has created a policy document that describes how users can and cannot 
use the organization’s network, systems, and services. What type of policy has he created?
A. Business continuity policy.
B. An acceptable use policy.
C. An incident response policy.
D. This is a standard, not a policy.
5. Angie is performing a penetration test and has gathered information using the Shodan search 
engine about her target. What type of reconnaissance has she performed?
A. Active
B. Commercial
C. Scanner- based
D. Passive
6. What role do data processors have in an organization?
A. They determine how data is processed.
B. They own the data.
C. They process data on behalf of a controller.
D. They contract with third parties to use the data.Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  177
7. Ginger’s personal data is used by an organization, including identifiable information like her 
name, address, and Social Security number. What term best describes Ginger?
A. Data owner
B. Data controller
C. Data processor
D. Data subject
8. Hong’s company conducts regular risk assessments. As part of their assessment process, 
they gather a team of experts who assess risks on a scale from low to high based on their 
knowledge and experience. What type of risk assessment is Hong’s company conducting?
A. Ad hoc
B. Quantitative
C. Qualitative
D. Continuous
9. How is likelihood measured in qualitative risk assessments?
A. A scale like high, medium, low
B. A numeric scale from 0 to 1
C. By calculating loss events per year
D. A numeric scale from 1 to 100
10. Grace wants to establish a governance structure that will leverage third- party experts who 
are paid by her organization. What governance structure should she select?
A. Board- based
B. Committee- based
C. Government- based
D. Market- based
11. Carmen’s organization wants to purchase cybersecurity insurance to offset the cost of poten-
tial breaches. What risk management strategy has her organization adopted?
A. Transfer
B. Accept
C. Avoid
D. Mitigate
12. Marissa has been recruited to a group that provides oversight for an organization but that 
doesn’t engage in the day- to- day operations of the organization. The group focuses on 
strategy and direction for the organization and meets a few times a year. What type of gover -
nance group is Marissa part of?
A. An activist investor’s group
B. A committee
C. A board
D. A regulator178 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
13. Governance at Selah’s organization is delegated to business units. This allows the units to 
determine how to balance their operational needs against their governance processes. What 
type of governance is this?
A. Centralized
B. Board- based
C. Decentralized
D. Committee-based
14. Sharon’s organization wants to understand the risks that it will experience due to acquiring a 
new subsidiary, but it needs to conduct the assessment quickly while leveraging their industry 
expertise. Which of the following risk assessment options should Sharon recommend to 
address this need?
A. Conduct an ad hoc risk assessment.
B. Conduct a one- time risk assessment.
C. Conduct a third- party risk assessment.
D. Build a continuous risk assessment process.
15. What term describes a third party that takes actions on behalf of a data controller?
A. Data subject
B. Data owner
C. Data processor
D. Data administrator
16. Which of the following will provide a customer the opportunity to engage a third party to 
deliver an SOC 2, Type 1 report created by third- party assessors?
A. A penetration testing agreement
B. A risk assessment agreement
C. A vulnerability scan clause
D. A right- to- audit clause
1 7. Isaac has been asked to be his organization’s data owner for customer data. Which of the fol-
lowing is not a typical part of that role?
A. Processing the data
B. Classifying data
C. Protecting data
D. Ensuring the quality of the data
18. Pedro’s organization uses industrial machinery, which runs an RTOS that is no longer sup-
ported. His organization’s policies require systems to be removed from service if they cannot 
be patched for security issues, and the RTOS has a known vulnerability. The machines are Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  179
very expensive and are a core part of the organization’s industrial processes. What risk  
process would Pedro follow if he wanted to retain the devices, despite the risk?
A. Transfer the risk.
B. Seek an exception.
C. Document the risk.
D. Mitigate the risk.
19. Jake’s team has begun handling new data related to customers, including their personally 
identifiable information. Jake takes on a new role that has responsibilities including classi-
fying each data element gathered about customers. What is Jake’s role in the data handling 
process?
A. Controller
B. Custodian
C. Owner
D. Processor
20. Which of the following measures is not commonly used as part of a business impact analysis?
A. RTO
B. MTTR
C. ARO
D. MTBF
21. As part of her organization’s marketing efforts, Julie’s team gathers information about cus-
tomers and others who visit their website. Julie has engaged an analytics company that uses 
the data gathered to identify trends and potential new market opportunities. What data role 
does this third- party company play?
A. Data owner
B. Data processor
C. Data controller
D. Data custodian
22. Neil’s organization has signed a contract that includes guarantees of 99.9 percent uptime. 
What type of agreement has Neil’s organization created?
A. An MSA
B. An NDA
C. A MTBF
D. An SLA
23. Which of the following best describes a data controller?
A. Manages the flow of data between custodians
B. Creates and formats data when it is collected or created
C. Any system that handles data
D. Determines the purpose and methods of processing data180 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
24. As part of his role, Augie is responsible for implementation of business rules related to data, 
as well as for storage, and use of data and datasets. What data- related role does Augie hold?
A. Data owner
B. Data custodian
C. Data processor
D. Data subject
25. Which of the following penalties is most typically imposed on a country rather than on a 
company?
A. Fines
B. Loss of license
C. Sanctions
D. Mandatory reporting
26. Which of the following is not a commonly used term to describe risk appetite?
A. Intentional
B. Neutral
C. Expansionary
D. Conservative
2 7. What does a data steward do?
A. Create data.
B. Carry out data use and security policies.
C. Explain compliance requirements for data.
D. Oversee data throughout its life cycle.
28. Marcus determines what organizationally owned data is used for a given purpose and how it 
is processed. What data role does he have in his organization?
A. He is a data controller.
B. He is a supervisory authority.
C. He is a data protection officer.
D. He is a data processor.
29. Colleen’s organization has deployed web application firewalls (WAFs) to protect their web 
services from being impacted by a known SQL injection attack. What risk management 
strategy has the organization adopted?
A. Transfer
B. Accept
C. Avoid
D. MitigateChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  181
30. Requiring all web traffic to be sent via HTTPS is an example of what type of standard?
A. Access control
B. Encryption
C. Password
D. Physical security
31. Why are cloud IaaS vendors unlikely to agree to including a right- to- audit clause in their 
contracts?
A. The risk to their other customers is too great.
B. The cost of the assessment is too high.
C. They may not pass the audit.
D. They have competing regulatory requirements.
32. Chuck’s organization requires that user accounts only be able to log in during the staff mem-
ber’s working hours. What type of standard would drive a setting like this?
A. Access control
B. Encryption
C. Password
D. Physical security
33. Frankie wants to establish her organization’s encryption standard. Which of the following 
should she recommend for a default encryption algorithm for general use if cryptographic 
strength is a critical feature?
A. AES- 128
B. SHA- 1
C. AES- 256
D. SHA- 2
34. Jill’s organization has selected Agile with a CI/CD process for their organization. What type 
of policy would document this selection?
A. Business continuity
B. Disaster recovery
C. Incident response
D. Software development life cycle
35. Megan’s organization wants to create a change management policy. Which of the following is 
not a typical change type found in a change policy?
A. Preauthorized changes
B. Emergency changes
C. Legislated changes
D. Standard changes182 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
36. Liz wants to assess the critical functions of her business and ensure that the systems that are 
part of those functions are assessed to determine how often they are likely to fail, how long 
it would take to restore them, and what recovery objectives will be. What process should she 
engage in?
A. A quantitative risk assessment
B. A business impact analysis
C. A qualitative risk assessment
D. A penetration test
3 7. What describes the key difference between policies and standards?
A. Policies are defined by third parties; standards are defined by organizations.
B. Policies are defined by organizations; standards are defined by third parties.
C. Policies are a statement of intent; standards define how rules help enforce policy.
D. Policies are legally enforceable; standards are optional.
38. Sophie wants to ensure that her vendor meets their SLA. What does Sophie need to do?
A. Ensure performance targets are defined in the contract with appropriate penalties.
B. Establish key performance indicators (KPIs) for her team and assess them regularly.
C. Ensure that security levels are not reduced when performing maintenance.
D. Determine if supply chain levels are met in order to meet demand.
39. Tuan is assessing risk and knows that he needs to be able to explain risk to his management. 
What two factors are combined to describe risk?
A. Impact and acceptance
B. Likelihood and ALE
C. Probability and impact
D. Probability and SLE
40. Marco wants to conduct active reconnaissance of a target for a penetration test. Which of the 
following is an appropriate action based on this desire?
A. Looking up information in Shodan
B. Conducting a nmap scan
C. Querying local DNS for the organization
D. Using public records to gather information
41. Beth is a data owner in her company. Which of the following is not a typical part of the role 
of data owner?
A. They categorize data.
B. They are responsible for processing data.
C. They are responsible for protecting data.
D. They are responsible for data quality.Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  183
42. NIST SP 800- 63B, Digital Identity Guidelines, provides advice on passwords and pass-
word standards. Why does the guide recommend that knowledge- based authentication like 
“What was your mother’s maiden name?” not be used for processes like password reset and 
recovery?
A. Users may not remember the answer.
B. Knowledge- based authentication information is often easily discovered through searches 
and social media.
C. Knowledge- based authentication information is not a valid factor for MFA.
D. Attackers can easily recover knowledge- based information from compromised authenti-
cation stores.
43. The company that Leon works for has experienced a significant malware infection and 
has segmented their network to prevent further spread. What risk mitigation strategy have 
they chosen?
A. Avoid
B. Transfer
C. Accept
D. Mitigate
44. Not using hints, preventing password expiration, storing passwords only in a hashed and 
salted form, and using minimum password length settings are all examples of what?
A. Password standards
B. Multifactor authentication
C. Establishing knowledge- based passwords
D. Biometrics
45. Anastasia works for a government entity that requires very strong risk controls and that has 
significant regulatory requirements it must meet. What risk appetite model should she expect 
her organization to adopt?
A. Expansionary
B. Conservative
C. Authoritarian
D. Legislative
46. Jack recently joined his organization’s security team. A system was identified as likely being 
impacted by ransomware, and Jack was given a document that described the organization’s 
ransomware handling practices. What common security document has he been given?
A. The IR policy
B. A ransomware cookbook
C. A ransomware playbook
D. A disaster recovery handbook184 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
4 7. Connie wants to explain the consequences of noncompliance with data regulations to 
her organization’s management. Which of the following is the most common statutory 
consequence of noncompliance with regulations?
A. Data breaches
B. Reputational damage
C. Contractual impacts
D. Fines
48. Hank wants to create a playbook for his incident response process. What will he create?
A. A detailed process for incident response
B. A legal document describing incident response
C. A high- level statement of purpose for incident response
D. A document describing the general incident response (IR) process
49. What type of agreement is used by organizations that want to protect their proprietary data 
while working with third parties or individuals who will have access to the data?
A. SLAs
B. NDAs
C. MSAs
D. BPAs
50. Oliver has joined an organization and has completed employee orientation, has received his 
username and password, and has reviewed the new employee security training. What process 
has he participated in?
A. Identity proofing
B. Mandatory access control
C. Onboarding
D. Biometric enrollment
51. What GDPR provision allows individuals to ask organization to delete their personal data?
A. The right to be forgotten
B. The right to deletion
C. The right to privacy
D. The right to ownership
52. Damian has provided a comprehensive risk register to his management, including a risk of 
employees violating policy by taking pictures of sensitive information displayed on their 
screens using their cell phones. Damian’s recommendation was to ban employees from 
carrying personal cell phones inside the office, but management has overruled that recom-
mendation and will allow phones. What risk management strategy has his organization’s 
leadership chosen?
A. Transfer
B. Accept
C. Avoid
D. MitigateChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  185
53. Which of the following is not a typical part of an offboarding process?
A. Returning company equipment
B. Copying files to a USB drive for the departing employee
C. Disabling or removing accounts
D. Changing passwords on shared accounts
54. Daryl wants to ensure that his organization balances risks and its goals. What risk appetite 
model should he suggest the organization adopts?
A. Conservative
B. Expansionary
C. Reactionary
D. Neutral
55. Charlene is preparing to conduct a penetration test and has been provided with access to all 
of her organization’s information about the systems, services, and configurations involved. 
What type of penetration test is she conducting?
A. A partially known environment test
B. An unknown environment test
C. A known environment test
D. A third- party test
56. The company that Omar works for wants to co- develop a mobile application with a third- 
party company. What type of agreement should they both sign as part of this?
A. An SLA
B. An NDA
C. An MSA
D. A BPA
5 7. Alex wants to hire a penetration tester who will simulate an attacker’s potential attacks 
against his environment. What type of test best fits this model?
A. A partially known environment test
B. An unknown environment test
C. A known environment test
D. A third- party test
58. What term describes the possibility of a risk occurring?
A. Impact
B. Likelihood
C. Potential
D. Rate of occurrence186 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
59. Killian’s organization wants to perform a penetration test that will provide the maximum 
amount of information about his organization and that will optimize penetration testers’ 
time. What type of test should he have conducted?
A. A partially known environment test
B. An unknown environment test
C. A known environment test
D. A third- party test
60. Justin’s organization has recently undergone a third- party audit that determined that their 
data- handling processes don’t comply with the GDPR. Changes to become compliant will 
take almost a year due to existing systems and software. What risk management strategy is 
Justin’s organization choosing if they continue to operate knowing they are noncompliant?
A. Transfer
B. Exception
C. Avoidance
D. Mitigate
61. Risk assessments required for regulatory compliance are most frequently conducted in which 
of the following modes?
A. As ad hoc risk assessments
B. As one- time risk assessments
C. As recurring risk assessments
D. As continuous risk assessments
62. Jack’s organization has engaged penetration testers for their annual penetration test. As 
part of the contract, the testers are provided with a list of target systems, operating systems, 
and software that they will be testing. What type of penetration test is Jack’s organization 
conducting?
A. A partially known environment test
B. An unknown environment test
C. A known environment test
D. A third- party test
63. The company that Jim works for is willing to accept significant risk in order to expand. How 
should Jim describe the organization’s risk appetite?
A. Conservative
B. Expansionary
C. Limited
D. NeutralChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  187
64. As part of the early stages of a penetration test, Hui has researched her target organization’s 
domain names and IP addresses, and has conducted a port scan. What type of activity is Hui 
engaging in?
A. Reconnaissance
B. An unknown environment test
C. A known environment test
D. OSINT gathering
65. What role does a person who has exercised the GDPR’s right to be forgotten hold?
A. Data subject
B. Data controller
C. Data processor
D. Data owner
66. How is exposure factor (EF) expressed for risk calculations?
A. As a calculation of the ALE multiplied by the ARO
B. As the likelihood of loss
C. As a potential percentage of loss
D. As a calculation of the SLE multiplied by the ARO
6 7. As part of his penetration testing process Nick intends to follow an employee of his target 
company into a secured area. What type of penetration testing is Nick engaged in?
A. Defensive
B. Offensive
C. Physical
D. Integrated
68. Valerie’s organization wants to ensure that their access control vestibule, ID card system, and 
guards are effective in stopping unwanted entrance. What type of penetration test should she 
use to validate this?
A. Physical
B. Offensive
C. Defensive
D. Integrated
69. Jason’s organization has engaged a penetration testing firm that specializes in using tech-
niques commonly employed by nation- state actors, including using social engineering 
techniques, advanced tools, and methods that will provide significant footholds within his 
infrastructure. What type of penetration test best describes this?
A. Physical
B. Offensive
C. Defensive
D. Integrated188 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
70. Joshua’s organization is required to comply with the EU’s GDPR. As part of their annual 
assessments, they conduct a GDPR compliance review and receive a report from their audi-
tors. What type of assessment is this?
A. A penetration test
B. A regulatory assessment
C. An internal audit
D. An attestation- based assessment
71. Alexandria wants to mitigate the risk of ransomware during its initial infection stages. Which 
of the following strategies should she employ?
A. Deploy an EDR tool.
B. Purchase cybersecurity insurance.
C. Use secure, ransomware- resistant backups.
D. Continue to operate as usual.
72. Shane’s organization has determined that they can accept up to $10,000,000 a year in risk- 
related loss in support of their strategic plans. What term best describes this?
A. Risk acceptance
B. Risk appetite
C. Ad hoc risk
D. A conservative risk tolerance
73. Eric manages his organization’s internal security team and wants to leverage a penetration 
test as part of his team’s testing that allows them to respond to simulated attacks. What type 
of model best describes this?
A. Physical
B. Offensive
C. Defensive
D. Integrated
74. Henry’s organization leverages penetration testing as part of its ongoing security practices, 
using attacker techniques as well as blue teaming to improve security constantly. What type 
of penetration testing methodology is Henry’s organization using?
A. Physical
B. Offensive
C. Defensive
D. Integrated
75. Jackie is an auditor and has completed an SOC 2, Type 2 audit. Her firm then provides a 
statement about the organization’s audit results and posture. What is this process known as?
A. Penetration testing
B. Audit sign- off
C. Regulatory defense
D. AttestationChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  189
76. Joe is an auditor who is on the staff of an organization that employs him to audit their own 
practices. What type of audit does Joe perform?
A. Internal
B. Regulatory
C. External
D. Compliance
7 7. Irene’s organization needs to follow PCI DSS standards. If she engages a third party to assess 
this, what type of audit is she having performed?
A. An internal regulatory audit
B. An external regulatory audit
C. An internal compliance audit
D. An external compliance audit
78. Anton’s organization processes credit cards but is a small organization. As part of their 
annual requirements related to PCI DSS, Anton fills out a form about their PCI DSS compli-
ance and submits it to their acquiring bank. What type of assessment has his organization 
conducted?
A. An internal regulatory audit
B. A self- assessment
C. An independent, third- party audit
D. An external compliance audit
79. What organization typically includes an audit committee for a company?
A. The security office
B. The shareholders
C. The board of directors
D. The third- party assessors
80. What type of risk assessment process is most commonly associated with a CI/CD 
pipeline model?
A. Ad hoc risk assessments
B. One- time risk assessments
C. Third- party risk assessments
D. Continuous risk assessments
81. Cristobal wants to ensure that a vendor his company is considering hiring has conducted an 
SOC 2, Type 2 audit that is reliable and that will reveal any critical issues. What should he 
ensure was done?
A. An internal audit with attestation by the CEO
B. An independent, third- party audit
C. A self- assessment
D. A third- party penetration test with attestation190 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
82. Kim’s organization has assessed the risk of floods that may impact their datacenter and has 
determined that the likely rate of occurrence and its cost if it does occur are not acceptable. 
Given this, the organization has opted to move their datacenter in the next year. What has 
occurred?
A. The risk dropped below their risk threshold.
B. The risk assessment failed.
C. A control failure occurred.
D. The risk passed their risk threshold.
83. Vanessa’s organization is a US- based health- care organization that is required to be com-
pliant with HIPAA. What type of external assessment should they conduct?
A. Regulatory
B. Offensive
C. Known environment
D. Physical
84. Jaime wants to establish her organization’s change management policy. What should the 
policy include?
A. High- level descriptions of how the organization will review, approve, and implement 
proposed changes
B. A detailed process for review and approval of changes
C. Descriptions of how a change request should be created, formatted, reviewed, and 
approved
D. An outline of the regulatory requirements for changes
85. Marek’s organization has a system that needs to receive a deviation from a defined security 
process. What best practice should he follow to ensure that this is done correctly?
A. He should conduct a risk assessment and document the results.
B. He should remove the system from the network segment to protect it.
C. He should ensure the deviation is approved through change management processes.
D. All of the above.
86. What is the key difference between a business continuity plan and a business conti-
nuity policy?
A. The plan describes how an organization will respond, whereas the policy outlines the 
high- level intent of the organization’s business continuity efforts.
B. The plan includes detailed steps for each part of the response, including how to restore 
systems and investigate issues, whereas the policy outlines the high- level intent of the 
organization’s business continuity efforts.
C. The plan describes the high- level intent of the organization’s business continuity efforts, 
whereas the incident response policy describes how the organization will respond.
D. They are the same; the terms are interchangeable.Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  191
8 7. Christina has prepared a document that includes high- level statements about how her orga-
nization will handle major incidents and what its overall stance on incidents is. What has she 
created?
A. An incident response process
B. A runbook
C. An incident response policy
D. An incident response standard
88. Terry wants to have all of his account data removed from organizations he has interacted 
with. What GDPR right can he leverage if he is an EU citizen?
A. Data stewardship
B. Personal data ownership
C. The right to be forgotten
D. His HIPAA rights
89. Probability and impact are used to rate what key security item?
A. Cost
B. Risk
C. Vulnerability
D. Audit findings
90. Gary wants to determine the probability of a risk occurring. What should he base his 
assessment on if he is performing a qualitative risk assessment?
A. A calculated rate of occurrence using industry statistical data
B. A rating from an experienced team of staff
C. The number of times it has happened to their competitors in a year
D. Actuarial tables provided by his insurance broker
91. Which of the following is not a common element for a penetration test’s rules of engagement?
A. Handling of sensitive and pentest- related data
B. A list of passwords
C. A list of in- scope IPs or domains
D. A list of emergency contacts
92. Maeve is preparing to sign a penetration testing contract with a third- party security service 
provider. The security service provider provides a questionnaire that asks the scope of sys-
tems that can and cannot be tested, the schedule and times that penetration testing can and 
cannot occur, and what to do if a preexisting compromise is discovered. What document is 
the third- party service provider assembling?
A. A right- to- audit clause
B. A service- level agreement
C. A memorandum of understanding
D. Rules of engagement192 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
93. Alaina wants to describe the level of impact and probability where her organization will 
either accept or attempt to mitigate or otherwise handle a risk at. What term describes this?
A. Risk threshold
B. Ad hoc risk level
C. Third- party risk level
D. Risk appetite
94. Alaina has been asked to create an AUP for her organization. Which of the following should 
she include?
A. An access and usage policy that lists times and roles allowed to access specific resources
B. A document that describes how the organization intends to approach change and related 
functions
C. An antivirus (AV) update policy that describes when and how AV updates are deployed
D. A description of acceptable use by organizational users
95. Kyle’s organization is a very well- known, multinational organization. A recent data breach 
has exposed data for millions of customers, including all of their account information. As 
part of the breach, Kyle’s company was discovered to have not followed common security 
practices, and in fact was operating in intentionally careless ways. Which of the following 
consequences should he highlight as most critical to the organization’s ongoing operations 
when he considers their customer base?
A. Fines
B. Due diligence
C. Reputational damage
D. Contractual impacts
96. What type of agreement do organizations create after signing an MSA that describes the 
specific tasks or deliverables that will be created or performed?
A. A MOU
B. A SOW
C. A punch list
D. A BPA
9 7. Jack’s organization recently received a shipment of SSDs and has begun to deploy them. 
What information would best help Jack assess the useful life of the devices?
A. An RTO
B. An MTTR
C. An RPO
D. An MTBFChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  193
98. The hard drives that Jason’s organization recently purchased have an MTBF of 300,000 
hours. When can Jason expect the first drive to fail?
A. At 150,000 hours
B. At 300,000 hours
C. At 450,000 hours
D. None of the above
99. Melissa’s organization wants to establish a metric that defines how much data could be lost if 
an issue occurs. What should they set?
A. An RTO
B. An MTTR
C. An RPO
D. An MTBF
100. What common terms are used to categorize anomalous behavior?
A. Risky, unexpected, and unintentional
B. Recurring, occasional, and unique
C. Unintentional, insider, and accidental
D. Active, passive, and integrated
101. Greg is reviewing a server and notices that it is both running outdated software and that the 
organization heavily relies on the services that it provides. He pulls together a team to deter -
mine what the risk of operating the server is and what issues would occur if it were removed 
from service that day. What type of assessment has he conducted?
A. An ad hoc risk assessment
B. A one- time risk assessment
C. A third- party risk assessment
D. A continuous risk assessment
102. Olivia’s organization operates servers in a datacenter that support customers across the 
country. As Olivia is determining her service level agreements, what information is most 
important in determining how quickly a server can be restored to operation if its mother -
board fails?
A. An RTO
B. An MTTR
C. An RPO
D. An MTBF
103. Irina’s organization wants to work with one of their vendors and wishes to establish an 
ongoing relationship with them. What type of agreement should they create between the 194 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
organizations so that they can create SOWs as they determine what services they need from 
their service provider’s organization?
A. An MOU
B. An SLA
C. An MSA
D. A BPA
104. Dani’s organization relies on journaling to help protect transactions that occur through its 
database. Which of the following does journaling impact the most?
A. An RTO
B. An MTTR
C. An RPO
D. An MTBF
105. Henry’s organization has set their RTO to 12 hours. What does this mean?
A. Outages must be less than 6 hours long.
B. Recovery from outages should take less than 12 hours.
C. Outages longer than 12 hours will require fail over to a warm site.
D. SLAs for third- party services should specify a 12 hour MTBF.
106. Valerie knows that her organization’s datacenter power infrastructure has an MTTR of 24 
hours. What should she do if there is a critical component failure in her power infrastruc-
ture, and the organization has a warm site with an activation of 12 hours and needs to be 
back online as soon as possible?
A. Wait to see if the recovery can be done in less than 24 hours.
B. Immediately begin a move to the warm site.
C. Wait to see if the recovery can be done in less than12 hours.
D. Wait for 12 hours, then begin the move to the warm site.
10 7. Peter’s risk assessment process includes calculations of single loss expectancy, the annualized 
rate of occurrence of risks, and the annualized loss expectancy. What type of risk assessment 
is Peter conducting?
A. Quantitative
B. Calculated
C. Qualitative
D. Registered
108. What organizational document is used to enumerate and rate an organization’s risks?
A. A risk appetite plan
B. A risk register
C. A quantitative register
D. A qualitative assessment reportChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  195
109. Amanda’s organization wants to conduct a risk assessment and needs to prioritize a timely 
completion of the process over rigorous detail. What type of assessment should she advise 
her organization to select?
A. Internal
B. External
C. Qualitative
D. Quantitative
110. Chuck wants to conduct a quantitative risk assessment. Which of the following will he need 
to be able to determine the single loss expectancy for a server?
A. Its purchase date
B. Which department manages the server
C. The operating system the server uses
D. The cost of the server
111. Shawna’s organization has undertaken reasonable steps to meet their compliance require-
ments for data handling. What is this process or effort called?
A. Data stewardship
B. Due diligence
C. Attestation
D. Data sanctioning
112. Jeremy knows that his customer data is worth $500,000, and that the value of the data 
would be reduced by 25 percent if it was exposed. What is the SLE for this data?
A. $25,000
B. $125,000
C. $250,000
D. $375,000
113. Ian wants to calculate the annualized loss expectancy for an asset. What two values does he 
need to know?
A. SLE and ARO
B. ARO and MTBF
C. SLE and RPO
D. MTBF and RTO
114. Waylon is charged with ensuring that risks related to customer data used as part of his orga-
nization’s primary application are managed appropriately. What is his role?
A. Board member
B. Data processor
C. Auditor
D. Risk owner196 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
115. Nathaniel’s organization is reviewing potential issues that may result from noncompliance 
with regulations that apply to his company. Which of the following would create the most 
significant operational harm?
A. Reputational damage
B. Loss of license
C. Fines
D. Contractual impacts
116. Susan wants to calculate the annualized loss expectancy for an asset that has a value of 
$50,000, an exposure factor of 50 percent, and an annual rate of occurrence of 2. What is 
the annualized loss expectancy for the asset?
A. $5,000
B. $25,000
C. $50,000
D. $100,000
11 7. Tim’s organization knows that a major breach occurs once every four years, resulting in 
a loss of $250,000 for his organization. What is the annual rate of occurrence that Tim 
should use in his risk calculations?
A. .25
B. $75,000
C. .75
D. $50,000
118. Charlene wants to calculate the annualized loss expectancy for a risk event. What two 
factors does she need to know to calculate the ALE for a risk?
A. ARO and TCO
B. SLE and RPO
C. TCO and RPO
D. ARO and SLE
119. John is conducting a penetration test of a client’s network. He is currently gathering 
information from sources such as archive.org, netcraft.com, social media, and 
information websites. What best describes this stage?
A. Active reconnaissance
B. Passive reconnaissance
C. Initial exploitation
D. Pivot
120. Juan is responsible for incident response at a large financial institution. He discovers that 
the company Wi- Fi has been breached. The attacker used the same login credentials that 
ship with the wireless access point (WAP). The attacker was able to use those credentials Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  197
to access the WAP administrative console and make changes. Which of the following best 
describes the lack of standards or procedures that caused this vulnerability to exist?
A. Improperly configured accounts
B. Untrained users
C. Using default settings
D. Failure to patch systems
121. What is the primary difference between active and passive reconnaissance?
A. Active will be done manually, passive with tools.
B. Active is done with unknown environment tests and passive with known environ-
ment tests.
C. Active is usually done by attackers and passive by testers.
D. Active will actually connect to the network and could be detected; passive won’t.
122. The type and scope of testing, client contact details, how sensitive data will be handled, and 
the type and frequency of status meetings and reports are all common elements of what arti-
fact of a penetration test?
A. The unknown environment (black- box) outline
B. The rules of engagement
C. The known environment (white- box) outline
D. The close- out report
123. Charlene has been asked to write a business continuity (BC) plan for her organization. 
Which of the following will a BC plan best handle?
A. How to respond during a person- made disaster
B. How to keep the organization running during a system outage
C. How to respond during a natural disaster
D. All of the above
124. Alaina’s company is considering signing a contract with a cloud service provider and wants 
to determine how secure their services are. Which of the following is a method she is likely 
to be able to use to assess it?
A. Ask for permission to vulnerability scan the vendor’s production service.
B. Conduct an audit of the organization.
C. Review an existing SOC audit.
D. Hire a third party to audit the organization.
125. Gurvinder’s corporate datacenter is located in an area that FEMA has identified as being 
part of a 100- year flood plain. He knows that there is a chance in any given year that his 
datacenter could be completely flooded and underwater, and he wants to ensure that his 
organization knows what to do if that happens. What type of plan should he write?
A. A continuity of operations plan
B. A business continuity plan
C. A flood insurance plan
D. A disaster recovery plan198 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
126. Which of the following environments is least likely to allow a right- to- audit clause in a 
contract?
A. A datacenter co- location facility in your state
B. A rented facility for a corporate headquarters
C. A cloud server provider
D. A datacenter co- location facility in the same country but not the same state
127 . Ben writes down the checklist of steps that his organization will perform in the event of a 
cryptographic malware infection. What type of response document has he created?
A. A playbook
B. A DR plan
C. A BC plan
D. A runbook
128. Caroline has been asked to find an international standard to guide her company’s choices in 
implementing information security management systems. Which of the following would be 
the best choice for her?
A. ISO 27002
B. ISO 27701
C. NIST 800- 12
D. NIST 800- 53
129. Which of the following principles stipulates that multiple changes to a computer system 
should not be made at the same time?
A. Due diligence
B. Acceptable use
C. Change management
D. Due care
130. You are a security engineer and discovered an employee using the company’s computer 
systems to operate their small business. The employee installed their personal software on 
the company’s computer and is using the computer hardware, such as the USB port. What 
policy would you recommend the company implement to prevent any risk of the company’s 
data and network being compromised?
A. Acceptable use policy
B. Clean desk policy
C. Mandatory vacation policy
D. Job rotation policy
131. What standard is used for credit card security?
A. GDPR
B. COPPA
C. PCI DSS
D. CISChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  199
132. Which of the following techniques attempts to predict the likelihood a threat will occur and 
assigns monetary values should a loss occur?
A. Change management
B. Vulnerability assessment
C. Qualitative risk assessment
D. Quantitative risk assessment
133. Which of the following agreements is less formal than a traditional contract but still has a 
certain level of importance to all parties involved?
A. SLA
B. BPA
C. ISA
D. MOU
134. You have an asset that is valued at $16,000, the exposure factor of a risk affecting that asset 
is 35 percent, and the annualized rate of occurrence is 75 percent. What is the SLE?
A. $5,600
B. $5,000
C. $4,200
D. $3,000
135. You are a security administrator for your company and you identify a security risk. You 
decide to continue with the current security plan. However, you develop a contingency plan 
in case the security risk occurs. Which of the following type of risk response technique are 
you demonstrating?
A. Accept
B. Transfer
C. Avoid
D. Mitigate
136. Which of the following is not a common security policy type?
A. Acceptable use policy
B. Business continuity
C. Incident response
D. Parking policy
137 . Your security manager wants to decide which risks to mitigate based on cost. What is this 
an example of?
A. Quantitative risk assessment
B. Qualitative risk assessment
C. Business impact analysis
D. Threat assessment200 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
138. Your company has outsourced its proprietary processes to Acme Corporation. Due to 
technical issues, Acme wants to include a third- party vendor to help resolve the technical 
issues. Which of the following must Acme consider before sending data to the third party?
A. This data should be encrypted before it is sent to the third- party vendor.
B. This may constitute unauthorized data sharing.
C. This may violate the privileged user role- based awareness training.
D. This may violate a nondisclosure agreement.
139. Which of the following is typically included in a BPA?
A. Clear statements detailing the expectation between a customer and a service provider
B. The agreement that a specific function or service will be delivered at the agreed- on 
level of performance
C. Sharing of profits and losses and the addition or removal of a partner
D. Security requirements associated with interconnecting IT systems
140. A security administrator is reviewing the company’s continuity plan, and it specifies an RTO 
of four hours and an RPO of one day. Which of the following is the plan describing?
A. Systems should be restored within one day and should remain operational for at least 
four hours.
B. Systems should be restored within four hours and no later than one day after the 
incident.
C. Systems should be restored within one day and lose, at most, four hours’ worth 
of data.
D. Systems should be restored within four hours with a loss of one day’s worth of data 
at most.
141. Which of the following statements is true regarding a data retention policy?
A. Regulations require financial transactions to be stored for seven years.
B. Employees must remove and lock up all sensitive and confidential documents when 
not in use.
C. It describes a formal process of managing configuration changes made to a network.
D. It is a legal document that describes a mutual agreement between parties.
142. How do you calculate the annual loss expectancy (ALE) that may occur due to a threat?
A. Exposure factor (EF) / single loss expectancy (SLE)
B. Single loss expectancy (SLE) × annual rate of occurrence (ARO)
C. Asset value (AV) × exposure factor (EF)
D. Single loss expectancy (SLE) / exposure factor (EF)
143. You are a security administrator for your company and you identify a security risk that  
you do not have in- house skills to address. You decide to acquire contract resources.  Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  201
The contractor will be responsible for handling and managing this security risk. Which of 
the following type of risk response techniques are you demonstrating?
A. Accept
B. Mitigate
C. Transfer
D. Avoid
144. You are a server administrator for your company’s private cloud. To provide service to 
employees, you are instructed to use reliable hard disks in the server to host a virtual envi-
ronment. Which of the following best describes the reliability of hard drives?
A. MTTR
B. RPO
C. MTBF
D. ALE
145. Which of the following best describes a key challenge of quantitative risk analysis compared 
to qualitative risk analysis?
A. Quantitative risk analysis requires detailed financial data.
B. Quantitative risk analysis is sometimes subjective.
C. Quantitative risk analysis requires expertise on systems and infrastructure.
D. Quantitative risk provides clear answers to risk- based questions.
146. Categorizing residual risk is most important to which of the following risk response 
techniques?
A. Risk mitigation
B. Risk acceptance
C. Risk avoidance
D. Risk transfer
147 . You are the IT manager and one of your employees asks who assigns data labels. Which of 
the following assigns data labels?
A. Owner
B. Custodian
C. Privacy officer
D. System administrator
148. A security analyst is analyzing the cost the company could incur if the customer database 
was breached. The database contains 2,500 records with personally identifiable information 
(PII). Studies show the cost per record would be $300. The likelihood that the database 
would be breached in the next year is only 5 percent. Which of the following would be the 
ALE for a security breach?
A. $15,000
B. $37,500
C. $150,000
D. $750,000202 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
149. Which of the following concepts defines a company goal for system restoration and accept-
able data loss?
A. MTBF
B. MTTR
C. RPO
D. ARO
150. You are a network administrator and have been given the duty of creating user accounts for 
new employees the company has hired. These employees are added to the identity and access 
management (IAM) system and assigned mobile devices. What process are you performing?
A. Offboarding
B. System owner
C. Onboarding
D. Executive user
151. Visa’s published documentation for “What to Do if Compromised” includes requirements to 
notify Visa within 3 days of an incident, to provide notice to other relevant parties, and to 
conduct forensic investigations while preserving evidence. What type of document is this?
A. A policy
B. A playbook
C. A checklist
D. A procedure
152. An organization’s information security policy framework typically contains what four types 
of documents?
A. A risk register, an audit report, a vulnerability scan, and a pentest report
B. Policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines
C. Laws, policies, standards, and practices
D. Policies, practices, procedures, and playbooks
153. Which of the following terms is used to measure how maintainable a system or device is?
A. MTBF
B. MTTF
C. MTTR
D. MITM
154. Helen’s organization provides telephone support for their entire customer base as a criti-
cal business function. She has created a plan that will ensure that her organization’s Voice 
over IP (VoIP) phones will be restored in the event of a tornado. What type of plan has she 
created?
A. A disaster recovery plan
B. An RPO plan
C. An incident response plan
D. An MTBF planChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  203
155. Greg has data that is classified as health information that his organization uses as part of 
their company’s HR data. Which of the following statements is true for his company’s secu-
rity policy?
A. The health information must be encrypted.
B. Greg should review relevant law to ensure the health information is handled properly.
C. Companies are prohibited from storing health information and must outsource to 
third parties.
D. All of the above.
156. What type of impact is an individual most likely to experience if a data breach that includes 
PII occurs?
A. IP theft
B. Reputation damage
C. Fines
D. Identity theft
157 . Isaac has been asked to write his organization’s access control standards. What policy is 
commonly put in place for service accounts?
A. They must be issued only to system administrators.
B. They must use multifactor authentication.
C. They cannot use interactive logins.
D. All of the above.
158. Emma is reviewing third- party risks to her organization, and Nate, her organization’s 
procurement officer, notes that purchases of some laptops from the company’s hardware 
vendor have been delayed due to lack of availability of SSDs (solid- state drives) and specific 
CPUs (central processing units) for specific configurations. What type of risk should Emma 
describe this as?
A. Financial risk
B. A lack of vendor support
C. System integration
D. Supply chain
159. Patching systems immediately after patches are released is an example of what risk 
management strategy?
A. Acceptance
B. Avoidance
C. Mitigation
D. Transference204 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
160. What key element of regulations, like the European Union’s GDPR, drive organizations to 
include them in their overall assessment of risk posture?
A. Potential fines
B. Their annual loss expectancy (ALE)
C. Their recovery time objective (RTO)
D. The likelihood of occurrence
161. What phases of handling a disaster are covered by a disaster recovery plan?
A. What to do before the disaster
B. What to do during the disaster
C. What to do after the disaster
D. All of the above
162. Naomi’s organization has recently experienced a breach of credit card information. After 
investigation, it is discovered that her organization was inadvertently not fully compliant 
with PCI DSS and is not currently fully compliant. Which of the following penalties is her 
organization most likely to incur?
A. Criminal charges
B. Fines
C. Termination of the credit card processing agreement
D. All of the above
163. What law or regulation requires a DPO in organizations?
A. FISMA
B. COPPA
C. PCI DSS
D. GDPR
164. Your company is considering moving its mail server to a hosting company. This will help 
reduce hardware and server administrator costs at the local site. Which of the following 
documents would formally state the reliability and recourse if the reliability is not met?
A. MOU
B. SLA
C. ISA
D. BPA
165. Risk severity is calculated using the equation shown here. What information should be sub-
stituted for X?
 Risk severity = X * Impact
A. Inherent risk
B. MTTR (mean time to repair)
C. Likelihood of occurrence
D. RTO (recovery time objective)Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  205
166. How is asset value determined?
A. The original cost of the item
B. The depreciated cost of the item
C. The cost to replace the item
D. Any of the above based on organizational preference
167 . What process is used to help identify critical systems?
A. A BIA
B. An MTBF
C. An RTO
D. An ICD
168. Zarmeena wants to transfer the risk for breaches to another organization. Which of the fol-
lowing options should she use to transfer the risk?
A. Explain to her management that breaches will occur.
B. Blame future breaches on competitors.
C. Sell her organization’s data to another organization.
D. Purchase cybersecurity insurance.
169. The financial cost of a breach is an example of what component of risk calculations?
A. Probability
B. Risk severity
C. Impact
D. All of the above
170. Joanna’s penetration test target is an unknown environment that is isolated from the Inter -
net and requires VPN access. What type of testing will she need to do to gather vulnerability 
information from systems?
A. Passive reconnaissance
B. OSINT reconnaissance
C. Active reconnaissance
D. Known environment reconnaissance
171. Olivia’s cloud service provider claims to provide zero data loss from storage, and Olivia’s 
company wants to take advantage of that service because loss of data would be extremely 
costly for the business. What business agreement can Oliva put in place to help ensure that 
the reliability that the vendor advertises is maintained?
A. An MOU
B. An SLA
C. An MSA
D. A BPA206 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
172. How is SLE calculated?
A. AV * EF
B. RTO * AV
C. MTTR * EF
D. AV * ARO
173. Wayne has estimated the ARO for a risk in his organization to be 3. How often does Wayne 
think the event will happen?
A. Once every 3 months
B. Three times a year
C. Once every three years
D. Once a year for three years
174. Elle works for a credit card company that handles credit card transactions for businesses 
around the world. What data privacy role does her company play?
A. A data controller
B. A data steward
C. A data custodian
D. A data processor
175. Nicole determines how her organization processes data that it collects about its customers 
and also decides how and why personal information should be processed. What role does 
Nicole play in her organization?
A. Data steward
B. Data custodian
C. Data controller
D. Data consumer
176. Kirk’s organization has been experiencing large- scale denial- of- service (DoS) attacks against 
their primary website. Kirk contracts with his Internet service provider to increase the orga-
nization’s bandwidth and expands the server pool for the website to handle significantly 
more traffic than any of the previous DoS attacks. What type of risk management strategy 
has he employed?
A. Acceptance
B. Avoidance
C. Transfer
D. Mitigation
1 7 7. After Angela left her last organization, she discovered that she still had access to her shared 
drives and could log in to her email account. What critical process was likely forgotten 
when she left?
A. An exit interview
B. Job rotation
C. Offboarding
D. GovernanceChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  207
178. Kelly’s organization has created an incident response policy that outlines the high- level 
goals of the IR process. Next, she wants to create detailed documents that describe the 
steps to handle specific incident types like denial- of- service attacks. What document should 
she create?
A. Standards
B. Playbooks
C. Regulations
D. Guidelines
179. Mohammed wants to show his organization’s senior leadership the impact of their risk 
management process over time. What risk reporting method effectively conveys this in an 
easily digestible visual format for senior leadership?
A. Ad hoc reports
B. Risk registers
C. Risk trend analysis
D. Risk event reports
180. Presenting certification that a third- party organization has validated a vendor’s practices 
against ISO 27001 is an example of what practice?
A. Internal audit
B. Vendor assessment
C. Vulnerability scanning
D. Data inventory
181. What common limitation do IaaS vendors place on penetration testing by their customers?
A. It can only be done by third parties.
B. It must be prescheduled.
C. It can only be done by the customers themselves.
D. Notification must be sent immediately after it occurs.
182. Chandra is providing guidance on recognizing phishing campaigns. Which of these is not a 
common way to recognize phishing emails?
A. It creates a false sense of urgency.
B. The IP address of the recipient.
C. The attachment is encrypted and password protected.
D. The email claims that there is a problem with your password.
183. Juan’s company trains users to be cautious about revealing information about security con-
trols, practices, configurations, and even the tools and software the company deploys. What 
is this practice known as?
A. Awareness training
B. Social engineering
C. An insider threat
D. Operational security208 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
184. Mark’s organization operates in the EU and sells products in multiple countries. It wants to 
determine its compliance requirements based on regulations that will impact it. Which of 
the following regions should it focus its review of legal implication on?
A. Local
B. National
C. Global
D. All of the above
185. What occurs when a vendor has a competing interest that could influence their behavior in 
a way that is not aligned with the best interests of one of their customers?
A. An insider threat
B. A MOU violation
C. A conflict of interest
D. A SOW violation
186. Selma’s organization allows individual business units to manage their cybersecurity needs 
and practices as they see fit. What type of governance structure have they adopted?
A. Centralized
B. Board- based
C. Committee- based
D. Decentralized
1 8 7. The US Treasury Department regulates banks and their behaviors, including security- related 
regulations. What term best describes this type of governance structure?
A. Government entity–based
B. Shareholder driven
C. Board- based
D. Centralized
188. The company that Sandra wants to work with does not provide third- party audit state-
ments. If Sandra wants to engage with them, what should she request as part of her 
vendor assessment process prior to signing a contract in order to have the most useful data 
available?
A. A right- to- audit clause
B. A supply chain analysis
C. Evidence of internal audits
D. A due diligence statement
189. Leigh wants to provide new users with information about her organization’s security goals 
and high- level practices. What do organizations typically provide to accomplish this?
A. Audit reports
B. Policy handbooks
C. Runbooks
D. User awareness trainingChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  209
190. Jodi wants to prepare her staff to defend against social engineering. What should she invest 
in to help her staff address this threat?
A. EDR tools
B. Awareness training
C. A NGFW
D. Security policies
191. How do audits and examinations differ?
A. An examination is simpler and less costly.
B. Audits are external and examinations are internal.
C. Audits are internal and examinations are external.
D. An audit is simpler and less costly.
192. Evangeline wants to develop a security training program. What should she do first?
A. Determine how the training will be presented.
B. Establish a budget.
C. Review regulatory requirements for training.
D. Assess the threats and risks the organization faces.
193. Angelo is designing his organization’s security governance groups and has created a 
committee. Which of the following is not a typical member of internal security governance 
committees?
A. Subject matter experts
B. Regulators
C. Management
D. Internal legal counsel
194. Dana wants to assess regulatory impacts on her organization’s security policy. Which of the 
following is not a typical regulatory impact she will need to assess?
A. Global
B. National
C. Local
D. Corporate
195. Marty wants to ensure that his security policies are up-to-date and effective. Which of the 
following data sources is least likely to be useful as he reviews his organization’s security 
policies?
A. Security system logs and reports
B. Staff feedback
C. NDAs
D. Review of regulations210 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
196. What term describes a formal document that outlines the terms and details of an agreement 
between two organizations, including the roles and responsibilities each will have?
A. A statement of work
B. A business partners agreement
C. A memorandum of agreement
D. A service level agreement
1 9 7. Victoria wants to understand a potential vendor’s security practices. Which of the following 
is the simplest way for her to gather that information from multiple potential vendors?
A. Third- party audits
B. Questionnaires
C. Penetration testing
D. OSINT
198. What two things most frequently drive external compliance reporting?
A. Regulatory bodies and contractual obligations
B. Internal and external audit
C. Contractual requirements and board reporting
D. Regulatory bodies and KPIs
199. Blaine wants to ensure that his organization consistently meets PCI DSS requirements. What 
should he implement to meet this goal?
A. Annual PCI DSS internal audits
B. Automated compliance monitoring
C. Annual PCI DSS external audits
D. Compliance KPIs
200. Ujama is reviewing logs and notices that one of his users has repeatedly failed their login 
process. After calling the user, he discovers that the user had mistyped their password mul-
tiple times. What type of anomalous behavior should he classify this as?
A. Insider
B. Risky
C. Unintentional
D. Unexpected
201. Common password management practices include which of the following?
A. Disabling MFA
B. Reusing passwords across multiple sites
C. Enabling password hints
D. Changing passwords only when necessaryChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  211
202. Mark is responsible for the execution of his organization’s security awareness program. 
Why might he deploy multiple training methods like workshops, online training, and simu-
lations as part of the training?
A. To meet compliance requirements
B. To address learning preferences
C. To decrease costs for training
D. To meet KPIs
203. Natasha wants to establish a vendor monitoring practice for her organization. What should 
she establish to ensure that her vendor is performing as expected?
A. A MOU
B. Ongoing compliance audits
C. Regulatory requirements
D. KPIs
204. Mikayla is working remotely in a public space and has been trained to make sure that 
others cannot see her screen or keyboard. What term is used to describe this?
A. Insider threats
B. Situational awareness
C. Social engineering
D. Unintentional risky behavior
205. What data role is typically the most senior in an organization?
A. Data processor
B. Data controller
C. Data owner
D. Data steward
206. Which of the following is not a common hybrid work environment security practice?
A. Use of VPNs
B. Use of secure Wi- Fi networks
C. Ensuring physical security
D. Deploying security cameras
207 . Which of the following is not a common driver of external compliance reporting?
A. Contracts
B. Regulation
C. Reputation
D. Licensing212 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
208. Justin wants to have work done by a contractor with whom his organization has a master 
services agreement. What should he prepare to fully document the required work?
A. A work order
B. A service level agreement
C. A memorandum of understanding
D. A memorandum of agreement
209. What measure is used to describe the average functional lifespan of a device in use?
A. An RTO
B. An MTTR
C. An RPO
D. An MTBF
210. Jackie wants to use an ISO standard to help her select and implement information security 
controls and to develop information security management guidelines. Which ISO standard 
should she use?
A. ISO 27001
B. ISO 27701
C. ISO 27002
D. ISO 31000
211. Establishing requirements like the height of fences is part of what standard for most 
organizations?
A. Physical security
B. Access control
C. Business continuity
D. Onboarding
212. What organization typically elects an organization’s board of directors in a public company?
A. The employees
B. The CEO
C. Shareholders
D. All relevant stakeholders
213. Greg wants to classify anomalous behavior he has observed. The behavior involves a user’s 
workstation sending large volumes of data to an off- site web server. How should he classify 
this behavior?
A. Risky
B. Unexpected
C. Unintentional
D. An insider threatChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  213
214. Amber is responsible for compliance with PCI DSS in her organization and wants to ensure 
that she meets ongoing compliance monitoring requirements. Which of the following 
options will best help her achieve ongoing compliance?
A. Conduct quarterly audits.
B. Use compliance monitoring capabilities in scanning and management tools.
C. Conduct regular training on compliance requirements.
D. Require an auditor’s attestation of compliance.
215. The third- party auditors that Dion hired for his organization have completed their audit. 
What action does the audit firm take after management acknowledgment is received from 
Dion’s company?
A. Compliance reports are sent to third parties.
B. Regulatory statements are sent to customers.
C. Attestation is provided by the auditor.
D. Follow- up vulnerability scans will validate findings.
216. Latisha is conducting a security review and notices that one of her users consistently uses 
her organization’s VPN from Chile while the employee is based in the United States. After 
reviewing logs, she notes that the user is sometimes logged in from both the US and the 
remote location in Chile, and believes that the user may be allowing a third party to access 
their VPN account to perform some or all of their job tasks. What type of threat most accu-
rately describes this?
A. Anomalous
B. Insider
C. Social engineering
D. Nation- state
2 1 7. Marzita wants to respond to a phishing campaign that is sending links to malware to orga-
nizations. What effective tactic can she use to react to these campaigns quickly?
A. Deploy a WAF to block suspicious links.
B. Subscribe to a threat feed and automatically block phishing campaign URLs.
C. Manually block phishing URLs as they are reported by users.
D. Implement user awareness training.
218. Amanda discovers that a member of her organization’s staff has installed a remote access 
Trojan on their accounting software server and has been accessing it remotely. What type of 
threat has she discovered?
A. Zero- day
B. Insider threat
C. Misconfiguration
D. Weak encryption214 Chapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight
219. Phil recently received an email claiming to be from HR with a link to a list of every employ-
ee’s compensation attached. Phil clicks on it without checking the URL because he is curious 
about the pay that others in his department receive. How would this behavior be classified?
A. Risky
B. Irresponsible
C. Unexpected
D. Unintentional
220. What should Ben do if he wants to assess the initial state of his information security 
awareness?
A. Implement security awareness based on a standard like ISO 27001.
B. Conduct a baseline analysis to determine his starting state.
C. Implement security awareness based on NIST standards.
D. Conduct a penetration test to determine how staff respond to security issues.
221. During an incident investigation, Naomi notices that a second keyboard was plugged into a 
system in a public area of her company’s building. Shortly after that event, the system was 
infected with malware, resulting in a data breach. What should Naomi look for in her in- 
person investigation?
A. A Trojan horse download
B. A malicious USB cable or drive
C. A worm
D. None of the above
222. Jill wants to train her users to appropriately respond to suspicious email messages. Which of 
the following will provide her organization with the most useful input from users?
A. Ask users to report the email to the email provider using a reporting button.
B. Ask users to report the email to an internal security team.
C. Ask users to delete the email to avoid further issues.
D. Ask users to click on the message and links to explore the potential security issue.
223. Marcia wants to assess the effectiveness of her security awareness program. What 
should she do?
A. Establish and monitor awareness KPIs.
B. Require a third- party awareness audit.
C. Conduct regular surveys about security awareness.
D. Track incident rates versus training participation.
224. Myles wants to describe the impact of noncompliance with regulations on his organization’s 
business. If his organization is not compliant, what impact is most likely to occur related to 
his customers?
A. Fines
B. Contractual impacts
C. Loss of license
D. SanctionsChapter 5 ■ Domain 5.0: Security Program Management and Oversight  215
225. Sabrina wants to train her users on password management best practices. Which of the fol-
lowing options will have the largest impact on her organization’s password security?
A. Implementing biometrics authentication factors
B. Conducting annual training on password best practices
C. Adopting NIST password length and complexity standards
D. Requiring staff to use an enterprise password manager
226. Jill wants to explain her organization’s risks to senior management, but she knows that the 
risk register is lengthy and detailed. What type of document is commonly used to convey the 
most important high- level information found in a risk register to senior leaders?
A. A risk matrix
B. An SLE report
C. An ALE report
D. A risk KPI list
227 . Which of the following best describes guidelines?
A. They outline the principles and rules that guide the execution of security efforts 
throughout the enterprise.
B. They provide advice to organizations seeking to comply with the policies and 
standards.
C. They provide mandatory requirements describing how an organization will carry out 
its information security policies.
D. They are detailed, step- by- step processes that individuals and organizations must 
follow in specific circumstances.