1. Nancy wants to adopt a backup strategy that will meet her organization’s desires about 
the amount of data that could be lost in a scenario where a restoration from backup was 
required and also wants to establish guidelines for how long a restoration should take. What 
two key objectives should she set?
A. An RPO and an RTO
B. An RFBT and an RPO
C. An RPO and an MTBF
D. An MTBF and an RFBT
2. John is running an IDS on his network. Users sometimes report that the IDS flags legitimate 
traffic as an attack. What describes this?
A. False positive
B. False negative
C. False trigger
D. False flag
3. Enrique is concerned about backup data being infected by malware. The company backs 
up key servers to digital storage on a backup server. Which of the following would be most 
effective in preventing the backup data being infected by malware?
A. Place the backup server on a separate VLAN.
B. Air  gap the backup server.
C. Place the backup server on a different network segment.
D. Use a honeynet.
4. What type of system is used to control and monitor power plant power generation systems?
A. IPG
B. SEED
C. SCADA
D. ICD
5. Geoff wants to establish a contract with a company to have datacenter space that is equipped 
and ready to go so that he can bring his data to the location in the event of a disaster. What 
type of disaster recovery site is he looking for?
A. A hot site
B. A cold site
C. A warm site
D. An RTO site
6. Olivia needs to ensure an IoT device does not have its operating system modified by 
third parties after it is sold. What solution should she implement to ensure that this does 
not occur?
A. Set a default password.
B. Require signed and encrypted firmware.
C. Check the MD5sum for new firmware versions.
D. Patch regularly.74 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
7. Maria is a security engineer with a manufacturing company. During a recent investigation, 
she discovered that an engineer’s compromised workstation was being used to connect to 
SCADA systems while the engineer was not logged in. The engineer is responsible for admin-
istering the SCADA systems and cannot be blocked from connecting to them. What should 
Maria do to mitigate this threat?
A. Install host- based antivirus/antimalware software on the engineer’s system.
B. Implement account usage auditing on the SCADA system.
C. Implement an NIPS on the SCADA system.
D. Use FDE on the engineer’s system.
8. Mike is a security analyst and has just removed malware from a virtual server. What feature 
of virtualization would he use to return the virtual server to a last known good state?
A. Sandboxing
B. Hypervisor
C. Snapshot
D. Elasticity
9. Which of the following is not an advantage of a serverless architecture?
A. It does not require a system administrator.
B. It can scale as function call frequency increases.
C. It can scale as function call frequency decreases.
D. It is ideal for complex applications.
10. Which of the following is the most important benefit from implementing SDN?
A. It will stop malware.
B. It provides scalability.
C. It will detect intrusions.
D. It will prevent session hijacking.
11. Derek has been asked to implement his organization’s service- oriented architecture as a set of 
microservices. What does he need to implement?
A. A set of loosely coupled services with specific purposes
B. A set of services that run on very small systems
C. A set of tightly coupled services with custom- designed protocols to ensure continuous 
operation
D. A set of services using third- party applications in a connected network enabled with 
industry standard protocols
12. Abigail is responsible for datacenters in a large, multinational company. She has to support 
multiple datacenters in diverse geographic regions. What would be the most effective way for 
her to manage these centers consistently across the enterprise?
A. Hire datacenter managers for each center.
B. Implement enterprise- wide SDN.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  75
C. Implement infrastructure as code (IaC).
D. Automate provisioning and deprovisioning.
13. Naomi wants to secure a real- time operating system (RTOS). Which of the following  
techniques is best suited to providing RTOS security?
A. Disable the web browser.
B. Install a host firewall.
C. Use secure firmware.
D. Install antimalware software.
14. Ben has been asked to explain the security implications for an embedded system that his 
organization is considering building and selling. Which of the following is not a typical con-
cern for embedded systems?
A. Limited processor power
B. An inability to patch
C. Lack of authentication capabilities
D. Lack of bulk storage
15. Madhuri has configured a backup that will back up all of the changes to a system since the 
last time that a full backup occurred. What type of backup has she set up?
A. A snapshot
B. A full backup
C. An incremental backup
D. A differential
16. Devin is building a cloud system and wants to ensure that it can adapt to changes in its 
workload by provisioning or deprovisioning resources automatically. His goal is to ensure 
that the environment is not overprovisioned or underprovisioned and that he is efficiently 
spending money on his infrastructure. What concept describes this?
A. Vertical scalability
B. Elasticity
C. Horizontal scalability
D. Normalization
1 7. Nathaniel wants to improve the fault tolerance of a server in his datacenter. If he wants to 
ensure that a power outage does not cause the server to lose power, what is the first control 
he should deploy from the following list?
A. A UPS
B. A generator
C. Dual power supplies
D. Managed power units (PDUs)76 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
18. George is a network administrator at a power plant. He notices that several turbines had 
unusual ramp- ups in cycles last week. After investigating, he finds that an executable was 
uploaded to the system control console and caused this. Which of the following would be 
most effective in preventing this from affecting the SCADA system in the future?
A. Implement SDN.
B. Improve patch management.
C. Place the SCADA system on a separate VLAN.
D. Implement encrypted data transmissions.
19. Mia is a network administrator for a bank. She is responsible for secure communications 
with her company’s customer website. Which of the following would be the best for her to 
implement?
A. SSL
B. PPTP
C. IPSec
D. TLS
20. Nora has rented a building with access to bandwidth and power in case her organization ever 
experiences a disaster. What type of site has she established?
A. A hot site
B. A cold site
C. A warm site
D. A MOU site
21. Mike is concerned about data sovereignty for data that his organization captures and main-
tains. What best describes his concern?
A. Who owns the data that is captured on systems hosted in a cloud provider’s 
infrastructure?
B. Can Mike’s organization make decisions about data that is part of its service, or does it 
belong to users?
C. Is the data located in a country subject to the laws of the country where it is stored?
D. Does data have rights on its own, or does the owner of the data determine what rights 
may apply to it?
22. What are the key limiting factors for cryptography on low- power devices?
A. There are system limitations on memory, CPU, and storage.
B. The devices cannot support public key encryption due to an inability to factor prime 
numbers.
C. There is a lack of chipset support for encryption.
D. Legal limitations for low- power devices prevent encryption from being supported.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  77
23. Elaine wants to adopt appropriate response and recovery controls for natural disasters. 
What type of control should she use to prepare for a multi- hour power outage caused by a 
tornado?
A. A hot site
B. A generator
C. A PDU
D. A UPS
24. Tim wants to ensure that his web servers can scale horizontally during traffic increases, while 
also allowing them to be patched or upgraded without causing outages. What type of net-
work device should he deploy?
A. A firewall
B. A switch
C. A horizontal scaler
D. A network load balancer
25. Nathaniel has deployed the control infrastructure for his manufacturing plant without a  
network connection to his other networks. What term describes this type of configuration?
A. Screened subnet
B. Air gap
C. Vaulting
D. A hot aisle
26. Chris is preparing to implement an 802.1X- enabled wireless infrastructure. He knows that 
he wants to use an Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)- based protocol that does not 
require client- side certificates. Which of the following options should he choose?
A. EAP- MD5
B. PEAP
C. LEAP
D. EAP- TLS
2 7. Olivia is implementing a load- balanced web application cluster. Her organization already 
has a redundant pair of load balancers, but each unit is not rated to handle the maximum 
designed throughput of the cluster by itself. Olivia has recommended that the load balancers 
be implemented in an active/active design. What concern should she raise as part of this 
recommendation?
A. The load balancer cluster cannot be patched without a service outage.
B. The load balancer cluster is vulnerable to a denial- of- service attack.
C. If one of the load balancers fails, it could lead to service degradation.
D. The load balancer cannot handle the throughput due to having two active nodes.78 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
28. Mark is responsible for managing his company’s load balancer and wants to use a load- 
balancing scheduling technique that will take into account the current server load and active 
sessions. Which of the following techniques should he choose?
A. Round- robin
B. Weighted response time
C. Least connection
D. Source IP hashing
29. Ramon is building a new web service and is considering which parts of the service should use 
Transport Layer Security (TLS). Components of the application include:
1. Authentication
2. A payment form
3. User data, including address and shopping cart
4. A user comments and reviews section
 Where should he implement TLS?
A. At points 1 and 2, and 4
B. At points 2 and 3, and 4
C. At points 1, 2, and 3
D. At all points in the infrastructure
30. Which device would most likely process the following rules?
PERMIT IP ANY EQ 443
DENY IP ANY ANY
A. NIPS
B. HIPS
C. Content filter
D. Firewall
31. Charles wants to use IPSec and needs to be able to determine the IPSec policy for traffic 
based on the port it is being sent to on the remote system. Which IPSec mode should he use?
A. IPSec tunnel mode
B. IPSec PSK mode
C. IPSec IKE mode
D. IPSec transport mode
32. What two connection methods are used for most geofencing applications?
A. Cellular and GPS
B. USB and Bluetooth
C. GPS and Wi- Fi
D. Cellular and BluetoothChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  79
33. Jason wants to implement a remote access virtual private network (VPN) for users in his 
organization who primarily rely on hosted web applications. What common VPN type is best 
suited to this if he wants to avoid deploying client software to his end- user systems?
A. A TLS VPN
B. An RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) VPN
C. An Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) VPN
D. An IPSec VPN
34. Binary data is an example of what type of data?
A. Non- human- readable
B. Encrypted
C. Human- readable
D. Masked
35. What IP address does a load balancer provide for external connections to connect to web 
servers in a load- balanced group?
A. The IP address for each server, in a prioritized order
B. The load balancer’s IP address
C. The IP address for each server in a round- robin order
D. A virtual IP address
36. Matt has enabled port security on the network switches in his building. What does port 
security do?
A. Filters by MAC address
B. Prevents routing protocol updates from being sent from protected ports
C. Establishes private VLANs
D. Prevents duplicate MAC addresses from connecting to the network
3 7. Tom is responsible for VPN connections in his company. His company uses IPSec for VPNs. 
What is the primary purpose of AH in IPSec?
A. Encrypt the entire packet.
B. Encrypt just the header.
C. Authenticate the entire packet.
D. Authenticate just the header.
38. Abigail is responsible for setting up a network- based intrusion prevention system (NIPS) on 
her network. The NIPS is located in one particular network segment. She is looking for a 
passive method to get a copy of all traffic to the NIPS network segment so that it can analyze 
the traffic. Which of the following would be her best choice?
A. Using a network tap
B. Using port mirroring
C. Setting the NIPS on a VLAN that is connected to all other segments
D. Setting up a NIPS on each segment80 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
39. Janice is explaining how IPSec works to a new network administrator. She is trying to explain 
the role of IKE. Which of the following most closely matches the role of IKE in IPSec?
A. It encrypts the packet.
B. It establishes the SAs.
C. It authenticates the packet.
D. It establishes the tunnel.
40. Emily manages the IDS/IPS for her network. She has a network- based intrusion prevention 
system (NIPS) installed and properly configured. It is not detecting obvious attacks on one 
specific network segment. She has verified that the NIPS is properly configured and working 
properly. What would be the most efficient way for her to address this?
A. Implement port mirror/monitor mode for that segment.
B. Install a NIPS on that segment.
C. Upgrade to a more effective NIPS.
D. Isolate that segment on its own VLAN.
41. You are responsible for an e- commerce site. The site is hosted in a cluster. Which of the  
following techniques would be best in assuring availability?
A. A VPN concentrator
B. Aggregate switching
C. An SSL accelerator
D. Load balancing
42. Ryan is concerned about the security of his company’s web application. Since the application 
processes confidential data, he is most concerned about data exposure. Which of the follow-
ing would be the most important for him to implement?
A. WAF
B. TLS
C. NIPS
D. NIDS
43. Claire has been notified of a zero- day flaw in a web application. She has the exploit code, 
including a SQL injection attack that is being actively exploited. How can she quickly react 
to prevent this issue from impacting her environment if she needs the application to continue 
to function?
A. Deploy a detection rule to her IDS.
B. Manually update the application code after reverse- engineering it.
C. Deploy a fix via her WAF.
D. Install the vendor- provided patch.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  81
44. Christina wants to ensure that session persistence is maintained by her load balancer. What is 
she attempting to do?
A. Ensure that all of a client’s requests go to the same server for the duration of a given 
session or transaction.
B. Assign the same internal IP address to clients whenever they connect through the load 
balancer.
C. Ensure that all transactions go to the current server in a round- robin during the time it is 
the primary server.
D. Assign the same external IP address to all servers whenever they are the primary server 
assigned by the load balancer.
45. Next- generation firewalls include many cutting- edge features. Which of the following is not a 
common next- generation firewall capability?
A. Geolocation
B. IPS and/or IDS
C. Sandboxing
D. SQL injection
46. Patrick has been asked to identify a UTM appliance for his organization. Which of the  
following capabilities is not a common feature for a UTM device?
A. IDS and or IPS
B. Antivirus/antimalware
C. MDM
D. DLP
4 7. Theresa implements a network- based IDS. What can she do to traffic that passes through 
the IDS?
A. Review the traffic based on rules and detect and alert about unwanted or undesirable 
traffic.
B. Review the traffic based on rules and detect and stop traffic based on those rules.
C. Detect sensitive data being sent to the outside world and encrypt it as it passes through 
the IDS.
D. All of the above.
48. Murali is building his organization’s container security best practices document and wants to 
ensure that he covers the most common items for container security. Which of the following 
is not a specific concern for containers?
A. The security of the container host
B. Securing the management stack for the container
C. Insider threats
D. Monitoring network traffic to and from the containers for threats and attacks82 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
49. Fred sets up his authentication and authorization system to apply the following rules to 
authenticated users:
Users who are not logging in from inside the trusted network must use multifactor 
authentication.
Users who have logged in from geographic locations that are more than 100 miles apart 
within 15 minutes will be denied.
 What type of access control is Fred using?
A. Geographic restrictions
B. Time- based logins
C. Supervisory control
D. Role- based access
50. Maria is responsible for security at a small company. She is concerned about unauthorized 
devices being connected to the network. She is looking for a device authentication process. 
Which of the following would be the best choice for her?
A. CHAP
B. Kerberos
C. 802.11i
D. 802.1X
51. Jason is considering deploying a network intrusion prevention system (IPS) and wants to be 
able to detect advanced persistent threats (APTs). What type of IPS detection method is most 
likely to detect the behaviors of an APT after it has gathered baseline information about 
normal operations?
A. Signature- based IPS detections
B. Heuristic- based IPS detections
C. Malicious tool hash IPS detections
D. Anomaly- based IPS detections
52. Mila wants to generate a unique digital fingerprint for a file, and needs to choose between a 
checksum and a hash. Which option should she choose and why should she choose it?
A. A hash, because it is unique to the file
B. A checksum, because it verifies the contents of the file
C. A hash, because it can be reversed to validate the file
D. A checksum, because it is less prone to collisions than a hash
53. Mila gives her team a scenario, and then asks them questions about how they would respond, 
what issues they expect they might encounter, and how they would handle those issues. What 
type of exercise has she conducted?
A. A tabletop exercise
B. A walk- through
C. A simulation
D. A drillChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  83
54. Jerome needs to explain the key difference between high availability and fault tolerance to his 
management. What is the major difference between the two?
A. High availability is designed to avoid service interruptions almost entirely, whereas fault- 
tolerant environments have minimal service disruptions.
B. High availability provides services, whereas fault tolerance handles issues.
C. High availability focuses on data, whereas fault tolerance focuses on infrastructure.
D. High availability has minimal service interruptions, whereas fault- tolerant environments 
are designed to avoid service interruptions almost entirely.
55. What element of the CIA triad is geographic dispersion intended to help with?
A. Confidentiality
B. Integrity
C. Assurance
D. Availability
56. Valentine wants to choose an appropriate obfuscation method to allow her customer service 
representatives to validate credit card numbers without exposing the full number to the staff 
member. What obfuscation method should she select?
A. Masking
B. Tokenization
C. Steganography
D. Hashing
5 7. Mateo wants to conduct a fail over test for his datacenter. What will he need to do to accom-
plish this?
A. Turn off all systems in his datacenter.
B. Simulate what would occur during a datacenter outage.
C. Force a fail over using his network or other systems.
D. Cause an outage of a critical system.
58 Casey’s organization has proprietary information models that they use to analyze the market 
that they operate in. What data type best describes this information?
A. Trade secret
B. Regulated
C. Financial information
D. Public information
59. Nicole wants to protect her SMTP email exchanges from being read by others while on the 
wire. What can she implement to protect SMTP?
A. SPF
B. TLS
C. DKIM
D. EXIF84 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
60. Brandon deploys a server in a VLAN used for IoT devices. He then creates firewall rules that 
allow users in a system administration network to SSH to that server so that they can man-
age systems in the protected network segment. What type of solution has Brandon deployed?
A. A UTM
B. A jump server
C. An ICS server
D. A VPN
61. What protocol is commonly used to allow for secured tunnels between corporate networks 
through untrusted networks?
A. RTOS
B. SHA- 1
C. IPSec
D. RSA
62. Asher’s organization has created a list of potential customers based on an analysis of their 
use of their site, buying habits, and ability to spend money on new products. What type of 
data is a list like this?
A. Legal information
B. Trade secrets
C. Regulated data
D. Classified data
63. Eva wants to deploy a network security device that will provide firewall services as well as 
IPS and email filtering. Which device should she deploy?
A. A UTM
B. An FWSM
C. A WAF
D. An ELB
64 Ramon wants to conduct an exercise for his organization with the least potential to cause 
disruption. Which of the following testing methodologies is least likely to cause potential 
issues with service delivery?
A. Tabletop exercises
B. Fail over exercises
C. Simulation exercises
D. Parallel processing exercises
65. Cassandra is considering transitioning from an on- premises to a hybrid cloud environment. 
Which of the following concerns will she need to consider that would not have been required 
in a single on- premises datacenter previously?
A. RPOs
B. Data sovereignty
C. RTOs
D. Power resilienceChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  85
66. Nick wants to protect Microsoft Excel files in transit across a network. Which of the follow-
ing is not a method he could use to protect data in transit?
A. TLS
B. VPN
C. File encryption
D. Disk encryption
6 7. Dani wants to protect HTTP traffic that is sent from SCADA devices on her network to a 
cloud- hosted controller. The devices don’t natively support an HTTPS connection. What 
could she do to transparently protect the data?
A. Set up a VPN connection from each SCADA device to the remote server.
B. Set up a TLS- enabled proxy between the devices and the server.
C. Set up SD- WAN.
D. Install X.509 certificates on each SCADA device.
68. Selah’s organization is conducting a simulation exercise. Which of the following is not a 
common element of a simulation?
A. Testing of notification processes
B. Testing of procedures
C. Testing of fail over capabilities
D. Testing of communication systems
69. Which of the following is not a common practice used to secure data in transit?
A. Encryption
B. TLS
C. Geolocation
D. VPN
70. Olivia wants to deploy a new firewall. What type of firewall should she select if the ability to 
operate at layer 7 is important to her?
A. A WAF
B. An NGFW
C. A stateful firewall
D. A packet filter
71. Marcellus wants to ensure that his organization has sufficient capacity to handle the failure 
of a web server. What type of technology could he deploy to ensure that individual web 
server failures are handled gracefully without using an overly complex solution?
A. Platform diversity
B. A multi-cloud system
C. A load balancer
D. A warm site86 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
72. What failure mode is typically preferred for in- line network taps?
A. Fail- open
B. Fail over
C. Fail- closed
D. Fail- reset
73. What key network technology is the core of an SASE implementation?
A. TLS
B. VLANs
C. IPSec
D. SD- WAN
74. Mikayla wants to prevent unauthorized users from plugging network devices into her wired 
network. What control would be most effective for this if she needs Ethernet jacks to be 
available in publicly accessible spaces for her staff to plug devices in as they move around the 
facility, but also wants to ensure those devices are secure?
A. NAC
B. Port security
C. IPS
D. Jump servers
75. Mark’s organization is preparing to move to an infrastructure as code model. He’s worried 
about what to do if a change in code causes issues. What common IaC practice will help the 
most with this?
A. Threat modeling
B. Least privilege
C. Version control
D. Artifact signing
76. The company that Alex works for is preparing to adopt a platform as a service tool for their 
customer relationship management needs. Alex knows that third- party vendors are respon-
sible for some, but not all, security in a PaaS environment. Which of the following is the PaaS 
vendor responsible for?
A. Network security
B. Endpoint security
C. User account security
D. Application security
7 7. Nick’s organization houses tape- based backups for their critical data in their primary data-
center. What resilience issue could result in the event of a major disaster?
A. The tapes may not have been validated and might not be able to be restored.
B. A single disaster could destroy both the facility and the tapes.
C. The tapes may not last for the expected lifetime of the backups.
D. Tapes are relatively slow and may not allow for timely restoration.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  87
78. Charles wants to adopt an encryption tool. What encryption standard should he look for the 
tool to support to ensure that he is using a current secure standard to protect his data?
A. AES- 512
B. AES- 256
C. AES- 128
D. AES- 192
79. Which of the following is not a common security concern with real- time operating systems?
A. Inability to install security tools
B. Lack of updates or patches
C. Likelihood of malware infection
D. Vulnerability concerns
80. Chris wants to create a token to substitute for data in a database. Which of the following is 
not a common attribute for tokens?
A. They don’t have exploitable meaning themselves.
B. They are easily reversible to identify the original data, even without the tokeniza-
tion scheme.
C. They frequently rely on one- way hash functions.
D. Tokens must be mapped to matching original data.
81. Pete’s organization has had a system fail and Pete wants to recover from backup. Which of 
the following backup methods will typically result in the fastest restoration timeframe?
A. Snapshots
B. Replication
C. Journaling
D. Tape backup
82. Henry accesses a database server from his workstation. What data state best describes the 
data while it is on the network?
A. Data at rest
B. Data in use
C. Data on the wire
D. Data in transit
83. Theresa’s organization operates in multiple countries. She knows that there are different laws 
that apply to her organization’s use of data in each country they operate in. What concept 
describes this?
A. Obfuscation
B. Legal hold
C. Data sovereignty
D. Geographic restrictions88 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
84. Hrant is deploying a network tap that supports an IPS for monitoring. If he wants to ensure 
that his organization’s security remains the same even if the tap and IPS fails, and prefers 
downtime to a lack of monitoring, what type of failure mode and monitoring deployment 
should he select?
A. In- line, fail-closed
B. In- line, fail-open
C. Tap, fail-closed
D. Tap, fail-open
85. Troy wants to physically isolate a device. What does he need to do to accomplish this?
A. Move it to a secure VLAN.
B. Implement 802.1X.
C. Create a physical air gap.
D. Unplug the device from power and the network.
86. Yasmine wants to ensure that her organization has appropriate connectivity as part of their 
infrastructure design for their primary site. Which of the following concerns should she 
review to ensure that physical disasters do not disable her company’s operations?
A. Service provider path diversity
B. Ensuring both fiber and copper connectivity are used
C. Implementing SD- WAN
D. Geographic dispersion
8 7. Carlos uses a remote desktop tool to connect to a server through a firewall that protects his 
organization’s database servers. He then uses software on the server to manage the database 
servers. What type of solution is Carlos using?
A. A network tap
B. SASE
C. SD- WAN
D. A jump server
88. Alaina is planning how to staff her warm site in the case of a natural disaster that disables 
her primary site. What concern is most likely to impact her capacity planning for staff in this 
scenario?
A. Whether staff will be able to reach the site
B. Whether staff will be impacted by the disaster
C. Whether the site will be impacted by the disaster
D. Whether generator fuel will be available
89. Which of the following is not a common type of incident response exercise?
A. Drills
B. Simulations
C. Tabletop
D. Walk- throughsChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  89
90. Jack wants to ensure that files have not changed. What technique can he use to compare 
current versions of the files to an original copy?
A. Encryption.
B. Check the file size.
C. Check the file metadata.
D. Compare hashes of the files.
91. Yuri wants to use an off-site backup location. What challenge can off-site backup locations 
create for organizations?
A. It is difficult to validate the integrity of the backups.
B. Retrieving the backups may slow down recovery.
C. The backups cannot be easily updated.
D. Off-site backups may be impacted by the same disaster.
92. Which of the following is a common part of technology capacity planning for resilience?
A. Cross- training staff
B. Using load balancers
C. Using multiple geographically diverse datacenters
D. Deploying uninterruptible power supplies
93. Which of the following data types best describes data covered by the European 
Union’s GDPR?
A. Trade secrets
B. Intellectual property
C. Regulated data
D. Legal information
94. What is the biggest downside of using journaling as part of a backup restoration process?
A. Larger volumes of data may be lost.
B. The time it takes to restore from a journal.
C. Journals cannot be encrypted for security.
D. Journaling does not support live databases.
95. Jill wants to design her organization for high availability. Which of the following design 
elements best supports power resilience for a high- availability environment for an on- site 
datacenter?
A. Using generators
B. Using UPS systems
C. Using UPS systems backed up by generators
D. Using a warm site on a separate power grid90 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
96. Valerie is concerned that the data obfuscation technique that her organization is using to 
ensure customer data is not visible to staff members who do not need to see it for their jobs 
may be vulnerable to client- side tampering. Which of the following techniques is most likely 
to be vulnerable to client- side tampering resulting in de- obfuscation?
A. Masking
B. Tokenization
C. Encryption
D. Hashing
9 7. Which of the following is not a commonly used business data classification?
A. Sensitive
B. Confidential
C. Top Secret
D. Public
98. Malia is reviewing potential considerations for her ICS deployment. Which of the following 
is typically not a consideration that Malia can control or change for embedded devices?
A. Ease of deployment
B. Patch availability
C. Risk transference
D. Compute
99. What layer is Layer 7 in the OSI model?
A. The physical layer
B. The application layer
C. The transport layer
D. The session layer
100. Network connected devices built into washing machines, microwaves, and other household 
appliances are examples of what type of network device?
A. ICS
B. SCADA
C. Embedded systems
D. Virtualization
101. What term best describes a set of loosely coupled, fine- grained services that communicate 
via lightweight protocols, allowing organizations to easily build new services without addi-
tional dependencies or infrastructure?
A. Containerization
B. IoT
C. Software- defined infrastructure
D. MicroservicesChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  91
102. What type of backup is done to update a full backup with changes made after the full 
backup occurred?
A. Incremental
B. Partial
C. Daily
D. Snapshots
103. As part of an exercise for her organization, Sharon calls a team member and asks them to 
check the status of critical systems. The team member, who is aware of the exercise, does 
not actually validate the systems but responds that specific systems are down based on the 
scenario. What type of exercise is Sharon most likely part of?
A. A tabletop exercise
B. A fail over exercise
C. A simulation exercise
D. A parallel processing test
104. Zhuri wants to ensure that her organization’s datacenter remains online during an extended 
power outage. What power resilience option is best suited to extended outages?
A. Generators
B. Solar
C. UPS
D. PDUs
105. Cesar wants to ensure that his organization’s SCADA and ICS devices remain secure. What 
is the most effective way to ensure that network attacks cannot impact his operation’s criti-
cal infrastructure?
A. Separate VLANs
B. TLS
C. Physical isolation
D. SDN
106. What key data element is used to validate which systems are allowed to use Ethernet ports 
where port security is enabled?
A. Their IP address
B. The network card’s manufacturer
C. The user’s password
D. Their MAC address
10 7. Which of the following is not a common concern for extended power outages where gener -
ators are providing power to a datacenter they were designed to support during outages?
A. Fuel availability
B. Generator maintenance
C. Generator capacity
D. Physical redundancy92 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
108. Rafael wants to protect his data from being accessed by unauthorized users. Which of the 
following is not well suited to preventing attacks by insider threats?
A. Encryption
B. Geographic restrictions
C. Tokenization
D. Permission restrictions
109. Malia wants to protect data in use. Which technique is not a good solution to ensuring that 
data in use is protected?
A. Encryption
B. Control access to the data
C. Hashing data
D. Limiting where data is processed
110. Lisa wants to ensure that her organization’s datacenter can properly handle short power 
disruptions and temporary undervoltage events. What power resilience solution is best 
suited to her needs?
A. Generators
B. UPS systems
C. PDUs
D. Solar power
111. Valentine has containerized her applications. What will not be part of the container?
A. The operating system
B. The application
C. Needed libraries
D. Configuration files
112. Jaime wants to manage connectivity, including both MPLS and broadband Internet services, 
for her organization. What technology should she select to enable her to manage multiple 
connection types using a software- based control system?
A. SASE
B. SDN
C. SD- WAN
D. VSAN
113. Cassandra wants to deploy a network security device that can detect and stop attacks. 
What type of network security device should she use if she wants to stop attacks based on 
behaviors and threat feeds?
A. An IDS
B. A proxy server
C. An IPS
D. A jump serverChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  93
114. Contracts, NDAs, and SOWs are all examples of what type of data?
A. Legal information
B. Trade secrets
C. Regulated
D. Financial
115. Jackson has deployed a next- generation firewall. Which of the following features is 
most likely to help him prevent new attacks without having to create individual rules to 
stop them?
A. Threat feeds
B. Application awareness
C. Deep packet inspection
D. High throughput
116. Which of the following is not provided by an IPSec VPN?
A. Confidentiality
B. Authentication
C. Availability
D. Integrity
11 7. What technologies are most frequently used to help enforce geographic restrictions?
A. Wi- Fi and Bluetooth
B. GPS and Wi- Fi
C. GPS and encryption
D. DNS and GPS
118. In the cloud responsibility matrix, what three areas is the provider always responsible for in 
an IaaS environment?
A. Data, devices, and accounts
B. Identities, applications, and network controls
C. Operating systems, applications, and physical hosts
D. Datacenters, networks, and physical hosts
119. Kirk’s organization contracts with a cloud service provider. Kirk is concerned about 
third- party vendors that his cloud service provider uses. How can Kirk best address these 
concerns?
A. Through direct contracts with the third- party vendors
B. By requiring regular audits of third- party vendors
C. Through the contract with his cloud service provider
D. By performing vulnerability scans of the third- party vendors94 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
120. Frankie wants to connect two remote sites so that they appear to be on the same local net-
work segment. What type of solution is best suited to this requirement if she wants traffic 
sent between the locations to be secure despite traversing the public Internet?
A. Establish a VLAN between the two locations.
B. Use TLS to encapsulate each service provided between the two locations.
C. Set up a VPN tunnel between the two locations.
D. Reclassify the data as public and send the data as normal.
121. Which of the following best describes replication as a resilience strategy?
A. It makes a complete backup copy of live data that can be restored from media if 
needed, then journaled changes can be replayed to catch up to the moment of failure.
B. It creates a continuous copy of live data either asynchronously or synchronously.
C. It uses a series of snapshots to provide disaster recovery for virtual machines.
D. It requires high- speed media to keep up with live data.
122. Sade works for a large organization that wants to ensure that their connectivity is properly 
secured. What type of security device should she select if throughput and advanced security 
capabilities are both important factors in selection?
A. A UTM device
B. An NGFW device
C. A WAF
D. A proxy server
123. Barb’s organization has a recovery point objective of 6 hours. At least how often should 
Barb conduct incremental backups to meet this RPO?
A. Once every hour
B. Once every 6 hours
C. Once every 12 hours
D. Once a day
124. Geoff’s data is stored in a cloud service’s database. What data state is the data in?
A. It is at rest.
B. It is in transit.
C. It is in use.
D. It is sovereign.
125. Tara’s web development team has written code that allows sensitive customer information 
to be hidden from users who do not have the right permissions. When individuals who do 
not have the proper rights to view sensitive information use the application, the data is  
displayed as a series of asterisks:
Account number: ****- ******- **Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  95
 What data obfuscation technique has Tara’s team employed to help protect her organiza-
tion’s data?
A. Encryption
B. Data classification
C. Hashing
D. Masking
126. Ed is building a continuity of operations plan (COOP) for his organization. What three  
scenarios does a COOP address?
A. Loss of personnel, loss of systems, loss of availability
B. Natural disasters, human- made disasters, mistakes or errors
C. Loss of access to a facility, damage to a facility, natural disasters
D. Loss of access to a facility, loss of personnel, and loss of services
127 . Which of the following properly describes a SPAN port configured on a switch or router 
for monitoring?
A. Active and inline
B. Passive and inline
C. Active and a monitor
D. Passive and a monitor
128. Renee wants to choose a control that will protect her organization against SQL injection 
attacks. Which of the following is likely to be the most effective control for attacks that are 
announced without prior notice and that require a very quick response?
A. Web application penetration testing
B. A WAF
C. Static code review
D. SASE
129. Maria wants to deploy a web application firewall that will stop new attacks against her 
organization. What should she do to make sure that her web application firewall rules are 
as current as possible?
A. Manually add new rules based on email updates.
B. Deploy rules based on the OWASP Top 10.
C. Subscribe to a threat feed and deploy rules based on the feed.
D. Subscribe to the vendor’s managed WAF rule service.
130. Gary’s organization provides Wi- Fi network connectivity for customers, employees, and 
IoT building automation devices. What should he implement if he needs each of the three 
groups to have access to the same resources at times without the three groups of users being 
able to connect to each other?
A. Fail- closed networks
B. Security zones
C. Data classification
D. Fail- open networks96 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
131. Kendra is designing a web application infrastructure and wants to use a load balanced 
cluster. Which of the following considerations is not directly addressed by using a load 
balancer?
A. Availability
B. Responsiveness
C. Scalability
D. Risk transference
132. Angie is logging in to a server. What data state is her authentication information in?
A. Data in storage
B. Data at rest
C. Data in validation
D. Data in use
133. Patrick wants to deploy a virtual private networking (VPN) technology that is as easy for 
end users to use as possible. What type of VPN should he deploy?
A. An IPSec VPN
B. An SSL/TLS VPN
C. An HTML5 L2TP VPN
D. An SAML VPN
134. Servers in redundant clusters are typically not placed in the same server rack in case of a 
water leak or other issue that impacts the rack. What consideration describes this type of 
design decision?
A. Connectivity
B. Geographic dispersion
C. Device placement
D. Attack surface
135. Akio is considering a decentralized model to manage her organization’s multiple datacen-
ters. What key advantage could this provide for her organization?
A. Reductions in cost
B. Increased resilience
C. Reductions in complexity
D. Increased complexity
136. Kim’s organization operates a cloud- hosted IaaS environment and uses an infrastruc-
ture as code model to deploy systems. A vulnerability has been found in the web server 
software that the organization uses. What process should her team use to remediate the 
vulnerability?
A. Manually patch each web server.
B. Update the underlying base image for the servers and redeploy the web servers.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  97
C. Add the patch to the code repository for the servers, transfer the load to other servers, 
and replace unpatched servers with patched versions by reinstantiating them.
D. Update the underlying base image, drain the load from working servers, and replace 
with new instances.
137 . Jason’s organization wants to classify data that the organization regularly uses. The data is 
customer data, and could cause harm to the company if it was released. Which of the fol-
lowing data classifications best fits this type of data?
A. Confidential
B. Restricted
C. Critical
D. Public
138. Which of the following is not a common consideration for legacy devices?
A. Cost
B. Ease of recovery
C. Patch availability
D. Inability to patch
139. Which of the following is not a common service provided by a UTM device?
A. Firewall
B. SD- WAN
C. IPS
D. Antivirus/antimalware
140. Nick wants to enable remote access for his organization and wants users to have a simple 
experience without significant overhead when connecting. What type of solution should he 
implement?
A. A TLS VPN
B. SD- WAN
C. SDN
D. An IPSec VPN
141. Jaime has deployed smart lighting and thermostats to her new buildings. What technique 
will have the largest impact if she wants to harden the devices?
A. Applying an industry standard baseline configuration
B. Moving the devices to a separate security zone
C. Fully patching the devices when they are deployed
D. Vulnerability scanning, then remediating the devices on a regular basis98 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
142. Chuck has deployed a cloud- based security environment that combines SD- WAN, zero 
trust, cloud access security broker (CASB), and firewall services to replace traditional VPNs. 
What sort of service has Chuck deployed?
A. SaaS
B. SASE
C. SONET
D. SCM
143. Lucca wants to fully validate his organization’s hot site’s ability to perform as needed in  
the event of an outage. What type of testing should he run to ensure that the hot site is 
completely tested as though an actual disaster has occurred?
A. Fail over
B. Simulation
C. Tabletop
D. Parallel processing
144. Christina’s organization has purchased a remote facility that they intend to use in case of a 
major disaster. The building has basic utilities, including Internet connectivity, but no other 
preparation has been made. What type of site is this?
A. A warm site
B. A hot site
C. A cold site
D. A dispersion site
145. Which of the following is not commonly part of a tabletop exercise?
A. A discussion of roles
B. A discussion of likely actions
C. Simulated calls to resources
D. A guided conversation
146. Helen has deployed both Cisco and Juniper routers in her organization to ensure that a vul-
nerability in one vendor’s products does not result in a complete outage of her organization. 
What is this type of design called?
A. Platform agnostic
B. Platform diversity
C. Multi-cloud
D. Parallel processing
147 . Kaito has deployed a system that accepts traffic from web browsers and distributes it to 
systems based on the number of connections that each server has. He has assigned each 
server a rating based on how powerful it is. Each time a new request comes in, requests Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  99
are sent to the system with the lowest number of connections after taking into account the 
relative rating of each server. What type of load balancing is Kaito using?
A. Source IP hashing
B. Resource-based
C. Weighted least connection
D. Round- robin
148. Jessica has port- scanned a multifunction printer and has discovered that the device provides 
services on ports 80, 443, 515, and 9100. Which of the following terms best describes this?
A. The printer’s attack surface
B. The printer’s security zone
C. The printer’s scalability
D. The printer’s resilience
149. Geoff is considering whether to deploy on- premises infrastructure or cloud- hosted  
infrastructure. His most important requirements in order are:
Ease of scalability
Management overhead
Cost
  If Geoff wants to run a containerized service that can handle very large loads, what model 
should he select?
A. SaaS
B. PaaS
C. IaaS
D. On- premises
150. Bank account numbers, credit card numbers, and invoice information are all examples of 
what type of data?
A. Intellectual property
B. Financial
C. Public
D. Trade secrets
151. John has deployed three servers that all respond as though they’re the same device to pro-
vide service he runs. What term best describes this configuration?
A. Load balancing
B. Clustering
C. Fail-open
D. Fail-closed100 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
152. Alaina’s organization is required to comply with the PCI DSS standard. What type of data 
is she most likely dealing with?
A. Intellectual property
B. Trade secrets
C. Financial information
D. Regulated information
153. Theresa wants to back up her virtualization environment. What backup scheme is most  
frequently used for virtual machines?
A. Journaling
B. Snapshots
C. Replication
D. Grandfather/Father/Son
154. What is the primary reason an organization might choose a parallel processing testing sce-
nario over a fail over testing scenario?
A. Parallel processing allows for more throughput.
B. Fail over does not fully test redundant systems.
C. Fail over requires organizations to create a significant issue to allow for the fail over 
to occur.
D. Parallel processing typically handles issues without outages.
155. Brent wants to monitor traffic using an IPS. He needs to prevent attack traffic from impact-
ing his datacenter and wants to minimize the amount of traffic that the IPS device has to 
filter. Where should he place the device to best match these requirements based on the  
following figure?
InternetAB CD
Border
ﬁrewall Core routerDatacenter
ﬁrewall Datacenter
router
A. Position A
B. Position B
C. Position C
D. Position D
156. Marco is preparing to brief his organization’s leadership about challenges that may result 
from adopting a hybrid cloud design. Which of the following is the primary concern that he 
should highlight?
A. Jurisdictional challenges
B. Increased complexity
C. Increased cost
D. Regulatory challengesChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  101
157 . Julia is designing her organization’s external connectivity as part of infrastructure capacity 
planning. She knows that the organization typically uses approximately 7 gigabits per sec-
ond of connectivity from their primary site. Julia has the following connectivity options, 
what should she select?
A. A 10 Gbps primary and a 5 Gbps secondary connection
B. A 5 Gbps primary and a 5 Gbps secondary connection
C. A 100 Gbps primary and a 10 Gbps secondary connection
D. A 10 Gbps primary and a 10 Gbps secondary connection
158. Daria wants to establish a disaster recovery site that can immediately take over for her 
organization’s primary datacenter in the event of a disaster. What sort of site should she 
build out?
A. A hot site
B. A warm site
C. A cold site
D. A dispersion site
159. Cathy wants to build a high- availability infrastructure for her midsize company’s head-
quarters building network. Which of the following is not a common element for a high- 
availability network core?
A. Redundant routers
B. Generators
C. Geographic dispersion
D. Multiple connectivity providers
160. The GDPR, HIPAA, FERPA, and the GLBA all impact what type of data?
A. Intellectual property
B. Classified data
C. Regulated data
D. Trade secrets
161. Jacob is concerned about attacks against his virtual machines that would target the  
hypervisor. What term describes this type of attack?
A. VM escape
B. Hypervisor escalation
C. VM shell attacks
D. Container breaches
162. Jill knows that IPSec uses a number of common protocols. Which of the following is not a 
key IPSec protocol?
A. AH
B. ISA
C. ESP
D. IKE102 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
163. An IDS is an example of what type of network device?
A. Active
B. Air gapped
C. Fail- closed
D. Passive
164. Why can’t hashing be used to securely store data that needs to be accessed in its 
original form?
A. Hashing takes too long to reverse.
B. Hashing uses symmetric encryption.
C. Hashing uses a one- way function.
D. Hashing uses asymmetric encryption.
165. Jerome wants to use an obfuscation method to protect data in his database. His organi-
zation works with sensitive customer data and does not want to run the risk of that data 
being exposed via their web application, but still wants to use the rest of their customer 
data in the application. What obfuscation process or tool should he use to ensure that the 
data can be matched to customers while remaining secure?
A. Use a steganographic program to modify the data, then use that data for the web 
application.
B. Use a masking algorithm to completely mask the data, then use a single database.
C. Tokenize the data and use the tokenized data in a database set up for the web 
application.
D. Hash the data in the original database, then use the database for the web application.
166. Jules is planning a SCADA deployment for her organization. Which of the following is most 
likely to be a major concern over the lifetime of the SCADA system?
A. Cost
B. Scalability
C. Inability to patch
D. Availability
167 . Susan has deployed a network using software- defined networking. What part of her net-
work is most critical to secure as part of this architecture?
A. The routers
B. The switches
C. The SDN controller
D. The SD- WAN connections
168. The ability to obtain third- party support for a device or system is an example of which 
consideration?
A. Availability
B. Risk transference
C. Compute
D. ResponsivenessChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  103
169. Yarif wants to create security zones in his network. Which of the following technologies is 
best suited to doing this based on roles and user identities?
A. NAC and VLANs
B. 802.1X and containerization
C. SDN and MAC address filtering
D. SD- WAN and VLANs
170. Elle is conducting an exercise for her organization and wants to run an exercise that is as 
close to an actual event as possible. What type of event should she run to help her organiza-
tion get this type of real- world practice?
A. A simulation
B. A tabletop exercise
C. A walk- through
D. A wargame
171. What security advantage does a serverless model provide?
A. Cost savings
B. No need to patch infrastructure
C. No vulnerable functions
D. No need to log events
172. Laura is planning for continuity of operations. What personnel concern should she plan to 
handle for her hot site in the event of a large- scale natural disaster in the area where her 
primary facility is?
A. Lack of facility power
B. Inability to authenticate personnel
C. Insider threats
D. Lack of available personnel
173. Which of the following is not a common means of enforcing segmentation on a network?
A. ACLs
B. VLANs
C. Firewalls
D. Air gaps
174. Binary files are an example of what type of data?
A. Human- readable
B. Restricted
C. Non- human- readable
D. Confidential104 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
175. Erin uses a journaling backup scheme for her database. After a system outage she needs to 
restore from her backups. If her organization uses a daily backup scheme that runs at mid-
night, and the issue occurred at 2 a.m., how much data is Erin likely to lose?
A. Two hours of data
B. One day and two hours of data
C. One week of data
D. Little or no data
176. Which of the following is typically used to manage an ICS?
A. SDN
B. SCADA
C. Active Directory
D. SD- WAN
1 7 7. Maria’s organization uses a cloud backup provider and performs encrypted backups 
for their IaaS infrastructure and data. If the data needs to be restored, what will Maria 
need to do?
A. Ask the vendor for the recovery key.
B. Provide the recovery key.
C. Restore the recovery key from backup and use it.
D. Generate a new recovery key and restore from backup.
178. What two major differences separate backups and replication?
A. Replication is periodic, but does not require restoration processes before data is able to 
be used.
B. Backups are continuous but require restoration processes before data is able to 
be used.
C. Backups are periodic and do not require restoration before data is able to be used
D. Replication is continuous and does not require restoration processes before data is able 
to be used.
179. Erin’s organization uses a backup schedule that creates a full backup once a week, then cre-
ates differential backups once a day on all other days. If the full backup was done four days 
ago, and Erin needs to restore from it, how many backups will she have to restore in total?
A. One
B. Two
C. Three
D. Four
180. What advantage does an IPSec VPN have over a TLS VPN when protecting traffic?
A. It operates at the network layer rather than the transport layer.
B. It supports stronger encryption types.
C. It does not rely on tunneling.
D. It does not provide advantages over TLS, and TLS should be used instead when 
possible.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  105
181. Vera wants to manage multiple commercial Internet services for her organization to ensure 
connectivity. What technology should she select to manage and maintain this?
A. SASE
B. SDN
C. IPSec
D. SD- WAN
182. Katie is considering deploying embedded devices. Which of the following limitations is 
most commonly associated with embedded devices?
A. Compute limitations
B. Responsiveness limitations
C. Availability issues
D. Cost issues
183. What term best describes intangible assets created by staff members of a company like 
designs and concepts?
A. Trade secrets
B. Sensitive data
C. Intellectual property
D. Trademarks
184. Jaime is concerned about the volume of logs that her new application may create. What 
capacity planning item should she focus on?
A. Compute
B. Power
C. Storage
D. People
185. Henry’s organization relies on remote workers in multiple regions. Each region has an 
office where workers work part-time, and the organization’s core services rely on a variety 
of SaaS providers. What network model best describes this type of usage model?
A. Centralized
B. Decentralized
C. On- premises
D. Logically segmented
186. Tom wants to use geographic restrictions as part of his security design. What type of tool is 
commonly used to manage geographic restrictions for mobile devices?
A. EDR
B. MDM
C. 802.1X
D. VPNs106 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
1 8 7. Jack has deployed a load balancer for his organization. When a new connection is made, 
the load balancer assigns the connection to the next server in a list, moving through the list 
over time as it distributes connections. What type of load balancing algorithm is in use?
A. Capacity- based
B. Round- robin
C. Least load
D. User pinning
188. What is the best way to protect data at rest?
A. Classification
B. Segmentation
C. Encryption
D. Hashing
189. Kathleen wants to monitor her datacenter’s environmental status. What solution should she 
invest in to meet this need?
A. An HVAC system
B. UPS systems
C. Environmental sensor appliances
D. A load balancer
190. Danielle’s organization has experienced a total power outage. The datacenter is currently 
running on its UPS. What concern should Danielle have if the UPS is her organization’s only 
power resilience control?
A. The generator may not start.
B. The UPS batteries may run out before the outage is over.
C. The generator may run out of fuel in a long outage.
D. The UPS may not handle the surge when power resumes.
191. Valerie wants to connect one of her company’s remote locations back to the organization’s 
main network. What type of solution can she use for a persistent connection between the 
networks that will securely tunnel data across a commodity Internet connection?
A. A TLS VPN
B. A web proxy
C. An IPSec VPN
D. An 802.1X tunnel
192. What does port security use to determine what machines or devices can connect to a  
network port?
A. A list of userIDs
B. A multifactor token code for each user
C. A list of MAC addresses
D. A list of IP addressesChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  107
193. Valerie wants to provide remote access to her organization’s applications to users who are 
traveling or working remotely. She wants to ensure that users have a secure way to work 
with organizational data, but also wants to provide the simplest and easiest secure means of 
access. What should Valerie implement?
A. An IPSec VPN
B. A jump server
C. A TLS VPN
D. An SD- WAN controller
194. Which of the following is not available as part of a snapshot?
A. The underlying hypervisor’s configuration
B. The virtual machine’s power state
C. The virtual machine’s memory state
D. The virtual machine’s disks
195. What role does geolocation play in considerations related to data?
A. It determines if data is at rest.
B. It impacts data sovereignty concerns.
C. It determines if data is in use.
D. It determines the data’s criticality.
196. Dane works for an energy provider that manages devices throughout a large geographic 
region using a control system that monitors and controls power infrastructure. The system 
operates from a central command center and uses cellular, broadband, and other con-
nectivity methods to connect devices to the control center. What type of system is Dane’s 
company using?
A. RTOS
B. Embedded systems
C. IoT
D. SCADA
1 9 7. Jorge wants to assess his organization’s Internet- accessible attack surface. Which of the fol-
lowing methods is most likely to provide a complete understanding?
A. Open source intelligence (OSINT) review
B. Threat feeds
C. Vulnerability scanning
D. Penetration testing
198. Brent has deployed multiple brands of IoT devices across his organization to ensure that if 
an issue with one type of device or device vendor occurs others will still function. What is 
the largest concern he should address with this design that focuses on platform diversity?
A. Complexity of management
B. Availability
C. Resilience
D. Ease of deployment108 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
199. Mark wants to protect data in use. Which of the following options should he select to pro-
tect data in use?
A. Hashing
B. A secure enclave
C. Containerization
D. Tunneling data
200. The following figure shows two simplified design concepts. What security architecture is 
shown in Model 2?
Web ser versModel 1
Web ser versModel 2
Private network Private network
A. Logical segmentation
B. Air gapped
C. Serverless
D. On- premises
201. Masking, encryption, and tokenization are all examples of what?
A. Data encryption methods
B. Data classification methods
C. Data obfuscation methods
D. Data tagging methodsChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  109
202. Liana wants to deploy a load balancer and wants to ensure that if a session is interrupted 
users have the highest chance of being reconnected to the same server. What algorithm 
should she select?
A. Round- robin
B. IP hash
C. Weighted least connection
D. Resource- based
203. Kyle wants to authenticate users who plug into his network, then assign them to a VLAN 
based on their role. What technology could he use to do this?
A. 802.1X
B. Port security
C. VLAN tagging
D. EAP
204. Using VLANs is an example of what type of segmentation?
A. Air gapping
B. Logical segmentation
C. Physical segmentation
D. Physical isolation
205. Lucca has deployed an SD- WAN controller. Which of the following types of connectivity 
will not typically be managed with an SD- WAN solution?
A. Wi- Fi
B. MPLS
C. Broadband
D. LTE
206. The information that is found on Kirk’s company’s Internet- facing website needs to be clas-
sified as part of his organization- wide data classification process. What classification should 
he apply?
A. Public
B. Internal
C. Confidential
D. Restricted
207 . Jim wants to design his network for high availability (HA). What first step is commonly 
taken in HA designs for networks?
A. Configure a hot site.
B. Purchase redundant hardware.
C. Identify single points of failure.
D. Implement clustering.110 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
208. Theo wants to ensure that artifacts in his IaC environment have not been tampered with. 
What should he require as part of his version control check- in system?
A. Artifact signing
B. Container image scanning
C. Dependency checks
D. Static analysis
209. Angela is considering using encryption as part of the security controls applied to her 
backups. In the event of a major disaster, what concern should she address about having 
encrypted backups?
A. Time to decrypt the backups
B. Cost of encrypting the backups
C. Ensuring the key is recoverable in a disaster
D. The amount of space that the encryption adds to the backups
210. Which of the following is not a common security issue with IoT devices?
A. Insecure communication
B. Data leaks
C. Ransomware
D. Device vulnerabilities
211. Jack is worried about outages that may disrupt service from his IaaS vendor’s cloud envi-
ronment. Which of the following options provides the greatest likelihood of avoiding ser -
vice disruptions from an outage from his current IaaS vendor?
A. Deploying to multiple availability zones (AZs)
B. Deploying to multiple regions
C. Deploying to multiple cloud vendors
D. Requiring contractual terms around uptime
212. Chuck is responsible for an on-site datacenter. He wants to ensure that the datacenter has 
appropriate network connectivity to ensure resilience and performance. Which of the fol-
lowing will have the greatest impact on meeting that requirement?
A. Contract for a higher bandwidth connection from a single vendor.
B. Deploy a UPS.
C. Contract with two separate network service providers.
D. Install a generator.
213. Ben has grouped his data based on use cases and sensitivity and has applied different secu-
rity practices based on those groupings. What data security technique is he using?
A. Segmentation
B. Obfuscation
C. Masking
D. TokenizationChapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  111
214. Monica wants to prevent users from sharing data and cares more about control than flex-
ibility. What type of access control model is best suited to ensuring central control over 
file access?
A. Role BAC
B. DAC
C. MAC
D. Rule BAC
215. Tara is monitoring web traffic to her organization’s website from a local public library and 
notices that all of the logins seem to come from the same IP address. She knows that the 
library provides multiple workstations for public use as well as public Wi- Fi. What type of 
network appliance might be in use?
A. A jump server
B. A proxy server
C. A load balancer
D. A DLP system
216. What three responsibilities are typically shared in PaaS environments according to the 
cloud responsibility matrix?
A. Identity infrastructure, applications, and network controls
B. Data, devices, and accounts
C. Physical hosts, physical networks, and physical datacenters
D. Operating systems, applications, and data
2 1 7. Marco wants to build a set of services for financial transactions for his company. The ser -
vices need to be capable of scaling quickly to very large numbers of transactions, and need 
to be able to operate without major dependencies on other components of the architecture. 
What architecture should he select to best meet these needs?
A. Containerization
B. Virtualization
C. Microservices
D. SCADA
218. What major advantage does a monitoring port have over an inline network tap?
A. It is easier to configure.
B. It has higher performance.
C. It is more secure.
D. If it fails, it will not impact the network.112 Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture
219. Which of the following is not typically true of embedded systems?
A. They provide the ability to install additional software.
B. They have a long lifespan.
C. They have memory and CPU constraints.
D. They are not designed for end- user configuration and control.
220. Naomi wants to be able to easily move her application between cloud service providers and 
to use automation to allow for deployment of the application. What technology best allows 
for applications to be bundled with the libraries and other components they need without 
requiring additional overhead like an operating system?
A. Containerization
B. Snapshots
C. Embedded systems
D. Segmentation
221. What term describes the right of countries to pass laws that control the use of data within 
their borders?
A. Data classification
B. Treaty obligations
C. Treaty rights
D. Data sovereignty
222. Ian’s organization uses a root certificate authority that only allows certificate signing 
locally. All certificates are transferred via USB drives because the system is not connected to 
the network. What type of security design is in use?
A. Port security
B. An air gapped design
C. Defense- in- depth
D. A zero- trust design
223. The company that Jayne works for has moved their web application infrastructure to a 
serverless model. Jayne’s security team has informed her that they believe the application 
is undergoing a large- scale resource exhaustion- based distributed denial- of- service attack. 
If the application is running in Microsoft’s serverless Azure environment, what is the most 
critical concern Jayne should have about the attack?
A. Loss of data
B. Cost of the resource usage
C. Inability to review logs
D. Vulnerabilities in the application.Chapter 3 ■ Domain 3.0: Security Architecture  113
224. Elaine knows that prior to 802.1X enabling a port, only EAP traffic is allowed through the 
port. What does this permit?
A. Vulnerability scanning
B. Authentication
C. Port scanning
D. System security status validation
225. Tristan deploys the network device shown in the following figure. The organization’s web 
browsing traffic is directed through it and the traffic is filtered as described in the image. 
What type of network appliance is shown?
Conceals internal IP
addresses for web
trafﬁc, blocks website
ads, applies content
control for websites
A. A web application firewall
B. A proxy server
C. A jump server
D. A load balancer
226. Parvati wants to configure her web application firewall to prevent basic SQL injection 
attacks. Which of the following rules could she use to accomplish this?
A. Filter out all OR statements.
B. Filter out single quotes.
C. Block all SQL statements.
D. Block all AND statements.